<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>

<!DOCTYPE TEI.2 SYSTEM "http://www.gutenberg.org/tei/marcello/0.4/dtd/pgtei.dtd" [

<!ENTITY u5  "http://www.tei-c.org/Lite/">

]>

<TEI.2 lang="en">
<teiHeader>
  <fileDesc>
    <titleStmt>
      <title>Modern Spiritualism</title>
      <author><name reg="Smith, Uriah">Uriah Smith</name></author>
    </titleStmt>
    <editionStmt>
      <edition n="1">Edition 1</edition>
    </editionStmt>
    <publicationStmt>
      <publisher>Project Gutenberg</publisher>
      <date>November 7, 2008</date>
      <idno type="etext-no">27197</idno>
      <availability>
        <p>This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and
        with almost no restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it
        away or re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg
        License online at www.gutenberg.org/license</p>
      </availability>
    </publicationStmt>
    <sourceDesc>
      <bibl>
        Created electronically.
      </bibl>
    </sourceDesc>
  </fileDesc>
  <encodingDesc>
  </encodingDesc>
  <profileDesc>
    <langUsage>
      <language id="en"></language>
    </langUsage>
  </profileDesc>
  <revisionDesc>
    <change>
      <date value="2008-11-07">November 7, 2008</date>
      <respStmt>
        <name>
            Produced by Heiko Evermann, Clarence L. Thomas IV, David King, and the Online
            Distributed Proofreading Team at &lt;http://www.pgdp.net/&gt;.
        </name>
      </respStmt>
      <item>Project Gutenberg TEI edition 1</item>
    </change>
  </revisionDesc>
</teiHeader>

<pgExtensions>
  <pgStyleSheet>
    .boxed           { x-class: boxed }
    .shaded          { x-class: shaded }
    .rules           { x-class: rules; rules: all }
    .indent          { margin-left: 2 }
    .bold            { font-weight: bold }
    .italic          { font-style: italic }
    .smallcaps       { font-variant: small-caps }
    .gesperrt        { font-style: italic }
  </pgStyleSheet>

  <pgCharMap formats="txt.iso-8859-1">
    <char id="U0x2014">
      <charName>mdash</charName>
      <desc>EM DASH</desc>
      <mapping>--</mapping>
    </char>
    <char id="U0x2003">
      <charName>emsp</charName>
      <desc>EM SPACE</desc>
      <mapping>  </mapping>
    </char>
    <char id="U0x2026">
      <charName>hellip</charName>
      <desc>HORIZONTAL ELLIPSIS</desc>
      <mapping>...</mapping>
    </char>
  </pgCharMap>
</pgExtensions>

<text lang="en">
  <front>
    <div>
      <divGen type="pgheader" />
    </div>
    <div>
      <divGen type="encodingDesc" />
    </div>

    <div rend="page-break-before: always">
      <p rend="font-size: xx-large; text-align: center">MODERN SPIRITUALISM</p>
      <p rend="font-size: large; text-align: center">A SUBJECT OF PROPHECY</p>
      <p rend="font-size: large; text-align: center">AND A</p>
      <p rend="font-size: x-large; text-align: center">SIGN OF THE TIMES.</p>
      <p rend="font-size: x-large; text-align: center">BY URIAH SMITH</p>
      <p rend="text-align: center">THE REVIEW AND HERALD PUBLISHING CO.</p>
      <p rend="text-align: center">1896.</p>
    </div>
    <div rend="page-break-before: always">
      <head>Contents</head>
      <divGen type="toc" />
    </div>

  </front>
<body>

<pb n='003'/><anchor id='Pg003'/>

<div rend="page-break-before: always">
<index index="toc"/>
<index index="pdf"/>
<head>Preface.</head>

<p>
For nearly fifty years Spiritualism has been before
the world. This surely is time enough to enable
it to show its character by its fruits. <q>By their
fruits ye shall know them,</q> is a rule that admits
of no exceptions. If evil fruits appear, the tree is
corrupt.
</p>

<p>
Spiritualism has made unbounded promises of
good. It has claimed to be the long-promised second
coming of Christ; the opening of a new era among
mankind; the rosy portal of a golden age, when all
men should be reformed, evil disappear, and the
renovation of society cause the hearts of men to
leap for joy, and the earth to blossom as the rose.
</p>

<p>
Has it fulfilled all, or any, of these promises?
If not, is it not a deception? and if a deception,
considering its wide-spread influence, and the number
of its adherents, is it not one of the most
gigantic and appalling deceptions that has ever fallen
upon Christendom? The Bible in the plainest terms,
declares that in the last days malign influences will
be let loose upon the world; false pretensions
will be urged upon the minds of men; and deceptions,
backed up by preternatural signs and wonders,
will develop to such a degree of strength, that, if
it were possible, they would deceive the very elect.
<pb n='004'/><anchor id='Pg004'/>
Is it possible that Spiritualism may be the very
development of evil, against which this warning
is directed?
</p>

<p>
To investigate these questions, and to show by
unimpeachable testimony, what Spiritualism is, and
the place it holds among the psychological movements
of the present day, is the object of these pages.
Not a few books have been written against Spiritualism;
but most of them endeavor to account for it
on the ground of human jugglery and imposture, or
on natural principles, the discovery of a new and
heretofore occult force in nature, etc., from which
great things may be expected in the future. But
rarely has any one discussed it from the standpoint
of prophecy, and the testimony of the Scriptures,
the only point of view, as we believe, from which its
true origin, nature, and tendency, can be ascertained.
</p>

<p>
Many features in the work of Spiritualism would
seem to indicate that the source from which it springs
is far from good; but it is based upon a church
dogma, firmly established through all Christendom,
which in many minds is of sufficient weight to overbalance
considerations that would otherwise be considered
ample grounds for shunning or renouncing it.
It is therefore the more necessary that the reader,
in examining this question, should let the bonds that
have heretofore bound him to preconceived opinions,
sit loose upon him, and that he should put himself
in the mood of Dr. Channing when he said: <q>I
must choose to receive the truth, no matter how it
bears upon myself, and must follow it no matter
<pb n='005'/><anchor id='Pg005'/>
where it leads, from what party it severs me, or to
what party it allies.</q> And he should remember also,
as the eminent and pious Dr. Vinet once sagaciously
observed, that <q>even now, after eighteen centuries
of Christianity, we are very probably involved in
some enormous error, of which Christianity will, in
some future time, make us ashamed.</q>
</p>

<p>
In view, therefore, of the importance of this
question, and the tremendous issues that hang on
the decisions we may make in these perilous times,
we feel justified even in <emph>adjuring</emph> the reader to
canvass this subject with an inflexible determination
to learn the truth, and then to follow it wherever
it may lead.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>U. S.</hi><lb/>
<hi rend='italic'>Battle Creek, Mich., 1897.</hi>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='009'/><anchor id='Pg009'/>

<div rend="page-break-before: always">
<index index="toc" level1="Chapter One. Opening Thought."/>
<index index="pdf" level1="Chapter One."/>
<head type="sub">Chapter One.</head>
<head>Opening Thought.</head>

<p>
What think ye? Whence is it&mdash;from heaven
or of men? Such was the nature of the question
addressed by our Saviour to the men of his
time, concerning the baptism of John. It is the
crucial question by which to test every system that
comes to us in the garb of religion: Is it from
heaven or of men? And if a true answer to the
question can be found, it must determine our attitude
toward it; for if it is from heaven, it challenges
at once our acceptance and profound regard, but if
it is of men, sooner or later, in this world or in the
world to come, it will be destroyed with all its followers;
for our Saviour has declared that every
plant which our heavenly Father has not planted
shall be rooted up. Matt. 15:13.
</p>

<p>
To those who do not believe in any <q>heavenly
Father,</q> nor in <q>Christ the Saviour,</q> nor in any
<q>revealed word of God,</q> we would say that these
points will be assumed in this work rather than
<pb n='010'/><anchor id='Pg010'/>
directly argued, though many incidental proofs will
appear, to which we trust our friends will be pleased
to give some consideration. But we address ourselves
particularly to those who still have faith in
God the Father of all; in his divine Son, our Lord
Jesus Christ, through whose blood we have redemption;
in the Bible as the inspired revelation of God's
will; and in the Holy Spirit as the enlightener of the
mind, and the sanctifier of the soul. To all those to
whom this position is common ground, the Bible will
be the standard of authority, and the court of last
appeal, in the study upon which we now enter.
</p>

<div>
<index index="toc"/>
<head>A Manifestation of Power.</head>

<p>
Spiritualism cannot be disposed of with a sneer.
A toss of the head and a cry of <q>humbug,</q> will not
suffice to meet its claims and the testimony of careful,
conservative men who have studied thoroughly
into the genuineness of its manifestations, and have
sought for the secret of its power, and have become
satisfied as to the one, and been wholly baffled as to
the other. That there have been abundant instances
of attempted fraud, deception, jugglery, and imposition,
is not to be denied. But this does not by any
means set aside the fact that there have been manifestations
of more than human power, the evidence
for which has never been impeached. The detection
of a few sham mediums, who are trying to impose
upon the credulity of the public, for money, may
satisfy the careless and unthinking, that the whole
affair is a humbug. Such will dismiss the matter
<pb n='011'/><anchor id='Pg011'/>
from their minds, and depart, easier subjects to
be captured by the movement when some manifestation
appears for which they can find no explanation.
But the more thoughtful and careful observers well
know that the exposure of these mountebanks does
not account for the numberless manifestations of
power, and the steady current of phenomena, utterly
inexplicable on any human hypothesis, which have
attended the movement from the beginning.
</p>

<p>
The Philadelphia <hi rend='italic'>North American</hi>, of July 31,
1885, published a communication from Thomas R.
Hazard, in which he says:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q>But Spiritualism, whatever may be thought of it, must
be recognized as a fact. It is one of the characteristic intellectual
or emotional phenomena of the times, and as such, it
is deserving of a more serious examination than it has yet
received. There are those who say it is all humbug, and
that everything outside of the ordinary course which takes
place at the so-called séances, is the direct result of fraudulent
and deliberative imposture; in short, that every Spiritualist
must be either a fool or a knave. The serious objection
to this hypothesis is that the explanation is almost as difficult
of belief as the occurrences which it explains. There must
certainly be some Spiritualists who are both honest and
intelligent; and if the manifestations at the séances were
altogether and invariably fraudulent, surely the whole thing
must have collapsed long before this; and the Seybert Commission,
which finds it necessary to extend its investigations
over an indefinite period, which will certainly not be less
than a year, would have been able to sweep the delusion
away in short order.</q>
</quote>

<p>
The phenomena are so well known, that it is
unnecessary to recount them here. Among them
may be mentioned such achievements as these: Various
articles have been transported from place to
<pb n='012'/><anchor id='Pg012'/>
place, without human hands, but by the agency of
so-called spirits only; beautiful music has been
produced independently of human agency, with and
without the aid of visible instruments; many well-attested
cases of healing have been presented; persons
have been carried through the air by the spirits
in the presence of many witnesses; tables have been
suspended in the air with several persons upon them;
purported spirits have presented themselves in bodily
form and talked with an audible voice; and all this
not once or twice merely, but times without number,
as may be gathered from the records of Spiritualism,
all through its history.
</p>

<p>
A few particular instances, as samples, it may be
allowable to notice: Not many years since, Joseph
Cook made his memorable tour around the world.
In Europe he met the famous German philosopher,
Professor Zöllner. Mr. Zöllner had been carefully
investigating the phenomena of Spiritualism, and
assured Mr. Cook of the following occurrences as
facts, under his own observation: Knots had been
found tied in the middle of cords, by some invisible
agency, while both ends were made securely fast, so
that they could not be tampered with; messages were
written between doubly and trebly sealed slates;
coin had passed through a table in a manner to illustrate
the suspension of the laws of impenetrability of
matter; straps of leather were knotted under his
own hand; the impression of two feet was given on
sooted paper pasted inside of two sealed slates;
whole and uninjured wooden rings were placed
<pb n='013'/><anchor id='Pg013'/>
around the standard of a card table, over either end
of which they could by no possibility be slipped;
and finally the table itself, a heavy beechen structure,
wholly disappeared, and then fell from the top
of the room where Professor Zöllner and his friends
were sitting.
</p>

<p>
In further confirmation of the fact that real
spiritualistic manifestations are no sleight-of-hand
performances, we cite the case of Harry Kellar, a
professional performer, as given in <q>Nineteenth
Century Miracles,</q> p. 213. The séance was held
with the medium, Eglinton, in Calcutta, India, Jan.
25, 1882. He says:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q>It is needless to say that I went as a skeptic; but I must
own that I have come away utterly unable to explain by any
natural means the phenomena that I witnessed on Tuesday
evening.</q>
</quote>

<p>
He then describes the particulars of the séance.
An intelligence, purporting to be the spirit of one
Geary, gave a communication. Mr. Kellar did not
recognize the name nor recall the man. The message
was repeated, with the added circumstances of
the time and particulars of a previous meeting, when
Mr. Kellar recalled the events, and, much to his surprise,
the whole matter came clearly to his recollection.
He then adds:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q>I still remain a skeptic as regards Spiritualism, but I
repeat my inability to explain or account for what must have
been an intelligent force which produced the writing on the
slate, which, if my senses are to be relied on, was in no way
the result of trickery or sleight-of-hand.</q>
</quote>

<pb n='014'/><anchor id='Pg014'/>

<p>
Another instance from <q>Home Circle,</q> p. 25,
is that of Mr. Bellachini, also a professional conjuror,
of Berlin, Germany. His interview was with
the celebrated medium, Mr. Slade. From his testimony
we quote the following:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q>I have not, in the smallest degree, found anything to be
produced by prestidigitative manifestations or mechanical
apparatus; and any explanation of the experiments which
took place under the circumstances and conditions then
obtaining, by any reference to prestidigitation, is <emph>absolutely
impossible</emph>. I declare, moreover, the published opinions of
laymen as to the <q>How</q> of this subject, to be premature,
and according to my views and experience, false and
one-sided.</q>&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>Dated,
Berlin, Dec. 6, 1877.</hi>
</quote>

<p>
When professional conjurors bear such testimony
as this, while it does not prove Spiritualism to be
what it claims to be, it does disprove the humbug
theory.
</p>

<p>
In addition to this, it appears that two propositions,
one of $2000, and the other of $5000, have
been offered to the one who claimed to be able to
duplicate all the manifestations of Spiritualism, to
duplicate two well-authenticated tests; but the challenge
has never been accepted, nor the reward
claimed. See <hi rend='italic'>Religio-Philosophical Journal</hi>, of Jan.
15, 1881, and January, 1883.
</p>

<p>
A writer in the <hi rend='italic'>Spiritual Clarion</hi>, in an article
on <q>The Millennium of Spiritualism,</q> bears the
following testimony in regard to the power and
strength of the movement:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q>This revelation has been with a power, a might, that if
divested of its almost universal benevolence, had been a terror
<pb n='015'/><anchor id='Pg015'/>
to the very soul; the hair of the very bravest had stood on
end, and his chilled blood had crept back upon his heart, at
the sights and sounds of its inexplicable phenomena. It comes
with foretokening and warning. It has been, from the very
first, its own best prophet, and step by step, it has foretold
the progress it would make. It comes, too, most triumphant.
No faith before it ever took such a victorious stand in its
very infancy. It has swept like a hurricane of fire through
the land, compelling faith from the baffled scoffer, and the
most determined doubter.</q>
</quote>

<p>
Dr. W. F. Barrett, Professor of Experimental
Physics in the Royal College of Dublin, says:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q>It is well known to those who have made the phenomena
of Spiritualism the subject of prolonged and careful inquiry,
in the spirit of exact and unimpassioned scientific research,
that beneath a repellent mass of imposture and delusion there
remain certain inexplicable and startling facts which science
can neither explain away nor deny.</q>&mdash;<hi rend='italic'><q>Automatic, or Spirit,
Writing,</q> p. 11 (1896).</hi>
</quote>

<p>
In the <hi rend='italic'>Arena</hi> of November, 1892, p. 688, Mr.
M. J. Savage, the noted Unitarian minister of
Boston, says:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q>Next comes what are ordinarily classed together as
<q>mediumistic phenomena.</q> The most important of these
are psychometry, <q>vision</q> of <q>spirit</q> forms, claimed communications
by means of rappings, table movements, automatic
writing, independent writing, trance speaking, etc.
With them also ought to be noted what are generally called
physical phenomena, though in most cases, since they are
intelligibly directed, the use of the word <q>physical,</q> without
this qualification, might be misleading. These physical phenomena
include such facts as the movement of material
objects by other than the ordinary muscular force, the
making objects heavier or lighter when tested by the scales,
the playing on musical instruments by some invisible power,
etc.... Now all of these referred to (with the exception
of independent writing, and materialization) I know to be
<pb n='016'/><anchor id='Pg016'/>
genuine. I do not at all mean by this that I know that the
<q>spiritualistic</q> interpretation of them is the true one. I
mean only that they are genuine phenomena; that they have
occurred; that they are not tricks or the result of fraud.</q>
</quote>

<p>
In the <hi rend='italic'>Forum</hi> of December, 1889, p. 455, the
same writer describes his experience at the house
of a friend with whom he had been acquainted eight
or ten years. When about to depart, he thought
he would try an experiment. He says:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q>She and I stood at opposite ends of the table at which
we had been sitting. Both of us having placed the tips of
our fingers lightly on the top of the table, I spoke, as if
addressing some unseen force connected with the table, and
said: <q>Now I must go; will you not accompany me to the
door?</q> The door was ten or fifteen feet distant, and was
closed. The table started. It had no casters, and in order
to make it move as it did, we should have had to go behind
and push it. As a matter of fact we led it, while it accompanied
us all the way, and struck against the door with
considerable force.</q>
</quote>

<p>
From the same article, p. 456, we quote again:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre">I add one more experiment of my own. I sat one day in
a heavy, stuffed armchair. The psychic sat beside me, and
laying his hand on the back of the chair, gradually raised it.
Immediately I felt and saw myself, chair and all, lifted into
the air at least one foot from the floor. There was no uneven
motion implying any sense of effort on the part of the lifting
force; and I was gently lowered again to the carpet. This
was in broad light, in a hotel parlor, and in presence of a
keen-eyed lawyer friend. I could plainly watch the whole
thing. No man living could have lifted me in such a
position, and besides, I saw that the psychic made not the
slightest apparent effort. Nor was there any machinery or
preparation of any kind. My companion, the lawyer, on
going away, speaking in reference to the whole sitting, said:
<q>I've seen enough evidence to hang every man in the State&mdash;enough
to prove <emph>anything excepting this</emph>.</q></q>
</quote>

<pb n='017'/><anchor id='Pg017'/>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre">Professor Crookes, of London, relates having seen and
heard an accordion played on while it was enclosed in a wire
net-work, and not touched by any visible hand. I have seen
an approach to the same thing. In daylight I have seen a
man hold an accordion in the air, not more than three feet
away from me. He held it by one hand, grasping the side
opposite to that on which the keys were fixed. In this
position, it, or something, played long tunes, the side containing
the keys being pushed in and drawn out without any contact
that I could see. I then said, <q>Will it not play for me?</q>
The reply was, <q>I don't know: you can try it.</q> I then took
the accordion in my hands. There was no music; but what
did occur was quite as inexplicable to me, and quite as convincing
as a display of some kind of power. I know not how
to express it, except by saying that the accordion was seized
as if by some one trying to take it away from me. To test
this power, I grasped the instrument with both hands. The
struggle was as real as though my antagonist was another
man. I succeeded in keeping it, but only by the most
strenuous efforts.</q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q>On another occasion I was sitting with a <q>medium.</q>
I was too far away for him to reach me, even had he tried,
which he did not do; for he sat perfectly quiet. My knees
were not under the table, but were where I could see them
plainly. Suddenly my right knee was grasped as by a hand.
It was a firm grip. I could feel the print and pressure of all
the fingers. I said not a word of the strange sensation, but
quietly put my right hand down and clasped my knee in order
to see if I could feel anything on my hand. At once I felt
what seemed like the most delicate finger tips playing over
my own fingers and gradually rising in their touches toward
my wrist. When this was reached, I felt a series of clear,
distinct, and definite pats, as though made by a hand of fleshy
vigor. I made no motion to indicate what was going on, and
said not a word until the sensation had passed. All this while
I was carefully watching my hand, for it was plain daylight,
and it was in full view; but I saw nothing.</q>
</quote>

<p>
We need not multiply evidence on this point. A
remark by T. J. Hudson (<q>Law of Psychic Phenomena,</q>
<pb n='018'/><anchor id='Pg018'/>
p. 206, McClurg &amp; Co., Chicago, 1894)
may fitly close this division of the subject. He
says:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q>I will not waste time, however, by attempting to prove
by experiments of my own, or of others, that such phenomena
do occur. It is too late for that. The facts are too well
known to the civilized world to require proof at this time.
The man who denies the phenomena of spiritism to-day is
not entitled to be called a skeptic, he is simply ignorant;
and it would be a hopeless task to attempt to enlighten him.</q>
</quote>

</div>

<div>
<index index="toc"/>
<head>A Manifestation of Intelligence.</head>

<p>
From the testimony already given it is evident
that there is connected with Spiritualism an agency
that is able to manifest power and strength beyond
anything that human beings, unaided, are
able to exert. It is just as evident that the same
agency possesses intelligence beyond the power of
human minds. Indeed, this was the very feature
that first brought it to the attention of the public.
Spiritualism, as the reader is doubtless aware, originated
in the family of Mr. John D. Fox, in Hydesville,
near Rochester, N. Y., in the spring of 1848.
Robert Dale Owen, in his work called <q>Footfalls
on the Boundary of Another World,</q> p. 290, has
given a full narration of the circumstances attending
this remarkable event. The particulars, he states,
he had from Mrs. Fox, and her two daughters, Margaret
and Kate, and son, David. The attention of
the family had been attracted by strange noises
which finally assumed the form of raps, or muffled
footfalls, and became very annoying. Chairs were
<pb n='019'/><anchor id='Pg019'/>
sometimes moved from their places, and this was
once also the case with the dining-room table.
Heard occasionally during February, the disturbance
so increased during the latter part of March, as
seriously to break the nightly repose of the family.
But as these annoyances occurred only in the night-time,
all the family hoped that soon, by some means,
the mystery would be cleared away. They did not
abandon this hope till Friday, the 31st of March,
1848. Wearied by a succession of sleepless nights,
the family retired early, hoping for a respite from
the disturbances that had harassed them. In this they
were doomed to especial disappointment. We can
do no better than to let Mr. Owen continue the narrative,
in his own words:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre">The parents had removed the children's beds into their
bedroom, and strictly enjoined them not to talk of noises,
even if they heard them. But scarcely had the mother seen
them safely in bed, and was retiring to rest herself, when the
children cried out, <q>Here they are again!</q> The mother
chided them, and lay down. Thereupon the noises became
louder and more startling. The children sat up in bed.
Mrs. Fox called her husband. The night being windy, it
was suggested to him that it might be the rattling of the
sashes. He tried several to see if they were loose. Kate, the
younger girl, happened to remark that as often as her father
shook a window-sash, the noises seemed to reply. Being a
lively child, and in a measure accustomed to what was going
on, she turned to where the noise was, snapped her fingers,
and called out, <q>Here, old Splitfoot, do as I do!</q> The knocking
instantly responded.</q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre"><emph>That was the very commencement. Who can tell where the
end will be?</emph></q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre">I do not mean that it was Kate Fox, who thus, in
childish jest, first discovered that these mysterious sounds
<pb n='020'/><anchor id='Pg020'/>
seemed instinct with intelligence. Mr. Mompesson, two hundred
years ago, had already observed a similar phenomenon.
Glanvil had verified it. So had Wesley, and his children. So
we have seen, and others. But in all these cases the matter
rested there and the observation was not prosecuted further.
As, previous to the invention of the steam engine, sundry
observers had trodden the very threshold of the discovery and
there stopped, so in this case, where the royal chaplain,
disciple though he was of the inductive philosophy, and
where the founder of Methodism, admitting, as he did, the
probabilities of ultramundane interference, were both at
fault, a Yankee girl, but nine years old, following up more in
sport than in earnest, a chance observation, became the
instigator of a movement which, whatever its true character,
has had its influence throughout the civilized world. The
spark had been ignited,&mdash;once at least two centuries ago; but
it had died each time without effect. It kindled no flame till
the middle of the nineteenth century.</q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre">And yet how trifling the step from the observation at
Tedworth to the discovery at Hydesville! Mr. Mompesson,
in bed with his little daughter (about Kate's age), whom the
sound seemed chiefly to follow, <q>observed that it would
exactly answer, in drumming, anything that was beaten or
called for.</q> But his curiosity led him no further.</q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre">Not so Kate Fox. She tried, by silently bringing together
her thumb and forefinger; whether she could obtain
a response. Yes! It could <emph>see</emph>, then, as well as <emph>hear</emph>. She
called her mother. <q>Only look, mother,</q> she said, bringing
together again her finger and thumb, as before. And as
often as she repeated the noiseless motion, just as often
responded the raps.</q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre">This at once arrested her mother's attention. <q>Count
ten,</q> she said, addressing the noise. Ten strokes, distinctly
given! <q>How old is my daughter Margaret?</q> Twelve
strokes. <q>And Kate?</q> Nine. <q>What can all this mean?</q>
was Mrs. Fox's thought. Who was answering her? Was it
only some mysterious echo of her own thought? But the
next question which she put seemed to refute the idea.
<q>How many children have I?</q> she asked aloud. Seven
strokes. <q>Ah!</q> she thought, <q>it can blunder sometimes.</q>
<pb n='021'/><anchor id='Pg021'/>
And then aloud, <q>Try again.</q> Still the number of raps was
seven. Of a sudden a thought crossed Mrs. Fox's mind.
<q>Are they all alive?</q> she asked. Silence for answer. <q>How
many are living?</q> Six strokes. <q>How many are dead?</q> A
single stroke. <emph>She had lost a child.</emph></q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre">Then she asked, <q>Are you a man?</q> No answer. <q>Are
you a spirit?</q> It rapped. <q>May my neighbors hear, if I call
them?</q> It rapped again.</q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q>Thereupon she asked her husband to call her neighbor,
a Mrs. Redfield, who came in laughing. But her cheer was
soon changed. The answers to her inquiries were as prompt
and pertinent, as they had been to those of Mrs. Fox. She
was struck with awe; and when, in reply to a question about
the number of her children, by rapping four, instead of three,
as she expected, it reminded her of a little daughter, Mary,
whom she had recently lost, the mother burst into tears.</q>
</quote>

<p>
We have introduced this narrative thus at length
not only because it is interesting in itself, but because
it is of special interest that all the particulars
of the origin, or beginning, of such a movement as
this, should be well understood. The following
paragraph will explain how it came to be called
<q>The Rochester Knockings,</q> under which name it
first became widely known. It is from the <q>Report
of the 37th Anniversary of Modern Spiritualism,</q>
held in Brooklyn, N. Y., March 31, 1885, and
reported in the <hi rend='italic'>Banner of Light</hi>, the 25th of the
following month:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre">After a song by J. T. Lillie, Mrs. Leah Fox Underhill,
the elder of the three Fox sisters (who was on our platform),
was requested to speak. Mrs. Underhill said that she was
not a public speaker, but would answer any questions from
the audience, and in response to these questions told in a
graphic manner how the spirits came to their humble home
in Hydesville, in 1848; how on the 31st of March the first
intelligent communication from the spirit world came
<pb n='022'/><anchor id='Pg022'/>
through the raps; how the family had been annoyed by the
manifestations, and by the notoriety that followed; how
the younger sisters, Catherine and Margaret, were taken to
Rochester, where she lived, by their mother, hoping that this
great and apparent calamity might pass from them; how
their father and mother prayed that this cup might be taken
away, but the phenomena became more marked and violent;
how in the morning they would find four coffins drawn with
an artistic hand on the door of the dining-room of her home
in Rochester, of different sizes, approximating to the ages and
sizes of the family, and these were lined with a pink color,
and they were told that unless they made this great fact
known, they would all speedily die, and enter the spirit-world.</q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q>Gladly would they all have accepted this penalty for
their disobedience in not making this truth known to the
world. She told how they were compelled to hire Corinthian
Hall in Rochester; how several public meetings were held
in Rochester, culminating in the selection of a committee
of prominent infidels, who, after submitting the Fox children
to the most severe tests,&mdash;they being disrobed in the presence
of a committee of ladies,&mdash;reported in their favor.... All
the time she was on our platform, there was a continuous
rapping by the spirits in response to what was being said by
the several speakers, also in response to the singing, and all
our exercises.</q>
</quote>

<p>
In the same volume of the <hi rend='italic'>Forum</hi> from which
quotations have already been made, M. J. Savage
states many facts which have a determinate bearing
on the point now under consideration; namely, the
intelligence manifested in the spiritual phenomena.
From these we quote a few. He says (p. 452 and
onward):&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre">I am in possession of quite a large body of apparent
facts that I do not know what to do with.... That certain
things to me inexplicable have occurred, I believe. The
negative opinion of some one with whom no such things have
<pb n='023'/><anchor id='Pg023'/>
occurred, will not satisfy me.... I am ready to submit
some specimens of those things that constitute my problem.
They can be only specimens; for a detailed account of even
half of those I have laid by, would stretch to the limits of
a book.</q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q>A merchant ship bound for New York was on her homeward
voyage. She was in the Indian Ocean. The captain
was engaged to be married to a lady living in New England.
One day early in the afternoon he came, pale and excited, to
one of his mates, and exclaimed, <q>Tom, Kate has just died! I
have seen her die!</q> The mate looked at him in amazement,
not knowing what to make of such talk. But the captain
went on and described the whole scene&mdash;the room, her
appearance, how she died, and all the circumstances. So
real was it to him, and such was the effect on him, of his
grief, that for two or three weeks, he was carefully watched
lest he should do violence to himself. It was more than
one hundred and fifty days before the ship reached her
harbor. During all this time no news was received from
home. But when at last the ship arrived at New York, it
was found that Kate did die at the time and under the circumstances
seen and described by the captain off the coast
of India. This is only one case out of hundreds. What does
it mean? Coincidence? Just happened so? This might be
said of one; but a hundred of such coincidences become
inexplicable.</q>
</quote>

<p>
The following is another instance mentioned by
the same writer:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q>I went to the house of a woman in New York. She was
not a professional. We had never seen each other before.
We took seats in the parlor for a talk, I not looking for any
manifestation. Raps began. I do not say whether they were
really where they seemed to be or not; I know right well
that the judgment is subject to illusion through the senses.
But I was told a <q>spirit friend</q> was present; and soon the
name, time, and place of death, etc., were given me. It was
the name of a friend I had once known intimately. But
twenty years had passed since the old intimacy; she had
lived in another State; I am certain that she and the
<pb n='024'/><anchor id='Pg024'/>
psychic had never known or even heard of each other. She
had died within a few months.</q>
</quote>

<p>
Mr. Savage then gives examples where the power
in question was exclusively mental:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q>The first time I was ever in the presence of a particular
psychic, she went into a trance. She had never seen, and, so
far as I know, had never had any way of hearing of my
father, who had died some years previously. When I was a
boy, he always called me by a special name that was never
used by any other member of the family. In later years he
hardly ever used it. But the entranced psychic said: <q>An
old gentleman is here,</q> and she described certain very marked
peculiarities. Then she added: <q>He says he is your father,
and he calls you &mdash;&mdash;,</q> using the old childhood name of mine.</q>
</quote>

<p>
Again, same page:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q>One case more, only, will I mention under this head.
A most intimate friend of my youth had recently died. She
had lived in another State, and the psychic did not know
that such a person had ever existed. We were sitting alone
when this old friend announced her presence. It was in this
way: A letter of two pages was automatically written,
addressed to me. I thought to myself as I read it,&mdash;I did
not speak,&mdash;<q>Were it possible, I should feel sure she had written
this.</q> I then said, as though speaking to her, <q>Will you
not give me your name?</q> It was given, both maiden and
married name. I then began a conversation lasting over an
hour, which seemed as real as any I ever have with my
friends. She told me of her children, of her sisters. We
talked over the events of boyhood and girlhood. I asked her
if she remembered a book we used to read together, and she
gave me the author's name. I asked again if she remembered
the particular poem we were both specially fond of,
and she named it at once. In the letter that was written,
and in much of the conversation, there were apparent hints
of identity, little touches and peculiarities that would mean
much to an acquaintance, but nothing to a stranger. I could
not but be much impressed. Now in this case, I know that
<pb n='025'/><anchor id='Pg025'/>
the psychic never knew of this person's existence, and of
course not of our acquaintance.</q>
</quote>

<p>
Mr. Savage then mentions cases which he calls
still more inexplicable, because the information conveyed
was not known either to the psychic (which
seems to be the new name for medium) or to himself.
He says:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre">But one more case dare I take the space for, though the
budget is only opened. This one did not happen to me, but
it is so hedged about and checked off, that its evidential
value in a scientific way is absolutely perfect. The names
of some of the parties concerned <emph>would be recognized in two
hemispheres</emph>. A lady and gentleman visited a psychic. The
gentleman was the lady's brother-in-law. The lady had an
aunt who was ill in a city two or three hundred miles away.
When the psychic had become entranced, the lady asked her
if she had any impression as to the condition of her aunt.
The reply was, <q>No.</q> But before the sitting was over, the
psychic exclaimed, <q>Why, your aunt is here! She has already
passed away.</q> <q>This cannot be true,</q> said the lady;
<q>there must be a mistake. If she had died, they would have
telegraphed us immediately.</q> <q>But,</q> the psychic insisted,
<q>she is here. And she explains that she died about two
o'clock this morning. She also says that a telegram has been
sent, and you will find it at the house on your return.</q></q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre">Here seemed a clear case for a test. So while the lady
started for her home, her brother-in-law called at the house
of a friend and told the story. While there the husband
came in. Having been away for some hours he had not
heard of any telegram. But the friend seated himself at his
desk and wrote out a careful account, which all three signed
on the spot. When they reached home,&mdash;two or three miles
away,&mdash;there was the telegram confirming the fact and the
time of the aunt's death, precisely as the psychic had
told them.</q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre">Here are most wonderful facts. How shall they be
accounted for? I have not trusted my memory for these
things, but have made careful record at the time. I know
<pb n='026'/><anchor id='Pg026'/>
many other records of a similar kind kept by others. They
are kept private. Why? The late Rev. J. G. Wood, of
England, the world-famous naturalist, once said to me: <q>I
am glad to talk of these things to any one who has a right
to know. But I used to call everybody a fool who had anything
to do with them; and with a smile&mdash;<q>I do not enjoy
being called a fool.</q></q></q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q>Psychic and other societies that advertise for strange
phenomena, must learn that at least a respectful treatment
is to be accorded, or people will not lay bare their secret
souls. And then, in the very nature of the case, these
experiments concern matters of the most personal nature.
Many of the most striking cases people will not make public.
In some of those above related, I have had so to veil facts,
that they do not appear as remarkable as they really are.
The whole cannot be told.</q>
</quote>

<p>
A quotation from this same writer (<q>Automatic
Writing,</q> page 14), says:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q>I am in possession of a respectable body of facts that I
do not know how to explain except on the theory that I am
dealing with some invisible intelligence. I hold that as the
only tenable theory I am acquainted with.</q>
</quote>

<p>
In the same work (page 19), the author, Mrs.
S. A. Underwood, as the result of her communications
from spirits, says:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q>Detailed statements of facts unknown to either of us
[that is, herself and her <q>control</q>], but which weeks afterward
were learned to be correct, have been written, and repeated
again and again, when disbelieved and contradicted
by us.</q>
</quote>

<p>
On this point, also, as on the preceding, testimony
need not be multiplied. The facts are too well
known and too generally admitted to warrant the
devotion of further space to a presentation of the
<pb n='027'/><anchor id='Pg027'/>
evidence. <emph>The question must soon be met, What is
the source of the power and intelligence thus manifested?</emph>
But this may properly be held in abeyance
till we take a glance at:
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index="toc"/>
<head>The Progress of Spiritualism.</head>

<p>
during the fifty years of its modern history. It
began in a way to excite the wonder and curiosity
of the people, the very elements that would give
wings to its progress through the land. Men suddenly
found their thoughts careering through new
channels. An unseen world seemed to make known
its presence and invite investigation. As the phenomena
claimed to be due to the direct agency of
spirits, the movement naturally assumed the name
of <q>Spiritualism.</q> It was then hailed by multitudes
as a new and living teacher, come to clear up
uncertainties and to dispel doubts from the minds of
men. At least an irrepressible curiosity was everywhere
excited to know what the new <q>ism</q> would
teach concerning that invisible world which it professed
to have come to open to the knowledge of
mankind. Everywhere men sought by what means
they could come into communication with the spirit
realm. Into whatever place the news entered,
circles were formed, and the number of converts
outstripped the pen of the enroller. It gathered
adherents from every walk of life&mdash;from the higher
classes as well as the lower; the educated, cultured,
and refined, as well as the uncultivated and ignorant;
from ministers, lawyers, physicians, judges,
<pb n='028'/><anchor id='Pg028'/>
teachers, government officials, and all the professions.
But the individuals thus interested, being
of too diverse and independent views to agree upon
any permanent basis for organization, the data for
numerical statistics are difficult to procure. Various
estimates, however, of their numbers have been
formed. As long ago as 1876, computations of the
number of Spiritualists in the United States ranged
from 3,000,000 by Hepworth Dixon, to 10,000,000
by the Roman Catholic council at Baltimore. Only
five years from the time the first convert to Modern
Spiritualism appeared, Judge Edmonds, himself an
enthusiastic convert, said of their numbers:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q>Besides the undistinguished multitudes, there are many
now of high standing and talent ranked among them,&mdash;doctors,
lawyers, and clergymen in great numbers, a Protestant
bishop, the learned and reverend president of a college,
judges of our higher courts, members of Congress, foreign
ambassadors, and ex-members of the United States Senate.</q>
</quote>

<p>
Up to the present time, it is not probable that
the number of Spiritualists has been much reduced
by apostasies from the faith, if such it may be
called; while the movement itself has been growing
more prominent and becoming more widely
known every year. The conclusion would therefore
inevitably follow that its adherents must
now be more numerous than ever before. A
letter addressed by the writer to the publishers
of the <hi rend='italic'>Philosophical Journal</hi>, Chicago, on this
point, received the following reply, dated Dec.
24, 1895:&mdash;
</p>

<pb n='029'/><anchor id='Pg029'/>

<quote rend="display">
<q>Being unorganized, largely, no reliable figures can be
given. Many thousands are in the churches, and are counted
there. It is <emph>claimed</emph> that there are about five million in the
United States, and over fifty million in the world.</q>
</quote>

<p>
The <hi rend='italic'>Christian at Work</hi> of Aug. 17, 1876, under
the head of <q>Witches and Fools,</q> said:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q>But we do not know how many judges, bankers, merchants,
prominent men in nearly every occupation in life,
there are, who make it a constant practice to visit clairvoyants,
sightseers, and so-called Spiritual mediums; yet it can
scarcely be doubted that their name is legion; that not only
the unreligious man, but professing Christians, men and
women, are in the habit of consulting spirits from the vasty
deep for information concerning both the dead and the living.
Many who pass for intelligent people, who would be shocked
to have their Christianity called in question, are constantly
engaged in this disreputable business.</q>
</quote>

<p>
The following appeared some years ago, in the
San Francisco <hi rend='italic'>Chronicle</hi>:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre">Until quite recently, science has coldly ignored the
alleged phenomena of Spiritualism, and treated Andrew Jackson
Davis, Home, and the Davenport brothers, as if they
belonged to the common fraternity of showmen and mountebanks.
But now there has come a most noteworthy change.
We learn from such high authority as the <hi rend='italic'>Fortnightly Review</hi>
that Alfred R. Wallace, F. R. S.; William Crookes, F. R. S.
and editor of the <hi rend='italic'>Quarterly Journal of Science</hi>; W. H. Harrison,
F. R. S. and president of the British Ethnological
Society, with others occupying a high position in the scientific
and literary world, have been seriously investigating the
phenomena of spiritism. The report which those learned
gentlemen make is simply astounding. There is no fairy tale,
no story of myth or miracle, that is more incredible than their
narrative. They tell us in grave and sober speech, that the
spirit of a girl who died a hundred years ago, appeared to
them in visible form. She talked with them, gave them locks
of her hair, pieces of her dress, and her autograph. They
<pb n='030'/><anchor id='Pg030'/>
saw her in bodily presence, felt her person, heard her voice;
she entered the room in which they were, and disappeared
without the opening of a door. The savants declare that
they have had numerous interviews with her under conditions
forbidding the idea of trickery or imposture.</q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q>Now that men eminent in the scientific world have
taken up the investigation, Spiritualism has entered upon a
new phase. It can no longer be treated with silent contempt.
Mr. Wallace's articles in the <hi rend='italic'>Fortnightly</hi> have attracted general
attention, and many of the leading English reviews and
newspapers are discussing the matter. The New York <hi rend='italic'>World</hi>
devotes three columns of its space to a summary of the last
article in the <hi rend='italic'>Fortnightly</hi>, and declares editorially that the
<q>phenomena</q> thus attested <q>deserve the rigid scientific
examination which Mr. Wallace invites for them.</q> This is
treating the matter in the right way. Let all the well-attested
facts be collected, and then let us see what conclusions they
justify. If spirit communication is a fact, it is certainly
a most interesting one. In the language which the World
attributes to John Bright, <q>If it is a fact, it is the one besides
which every other fact of human existence sinks into insignificance.</q></q>
</quote>

<p>
One of the reasons why it would be quite impossible
to state the number of real Spiritualists in our
land to-day has already been hinted at in a foregoing
extract. It is that <q>many thousands,</q> and we
think the number might in all probability be raised
to millions, who are in reality Spiritualists, do not
go by that name. They are in the various churches,
and are counted there. Yet they believe the phenomena
of Spiritualism, accept its teachings in their
own minds, and quietly and constantly, as the <hi rend='italic'>Christian
at Work</hi> avers, consult clairvoyants and mediums,
in quest of knowledge. The grosser features of the
teachings of Spiritualism which were painfully prominent
<pb n='031'/><anchor id='Pg031'/>
in its earlier stages, which there is no reason
to believe are discountenanced or abandoned either
in theory or practice, are relegated to an invisible
background, while in its outward aspect it now poses
in the attitude of piety and the garb of religion. It
even professes to adopt some of the more prominent
and popular doctrines of Christianity. In this phase
the average churchgoer cannot see why he may not
accept all that Spiritualism has to give, and still
retain his denominational relationship. Besides this,
the coming to light, every now and then, of the fact
that some person of national or world-wide fame is
a Spiritualist, adds popularity and gives a new
impetus to the movement. Such instances may be
named as the founder of the Leland Stanford University,
of California; the widow of ex-Vice-President
Hendricks, of Indiana, who, it is said, is carrying
on some very successful financial transactions by
direction from the spirit world; and Mr. W. T. Stead,
London editor of the <hi rend='italic'>Review of Reviews</hi>, who, in
1893 started a new quarterly, called <hi rend='italic'>The Border
Land</hi>, to be devoted to the advocacy of the philosophy
of Spiritualism, which he had then but recently
espoused. In other countries it has invaded the
ranks of the nobility, and even seated itself on the
thrones of monarchs. The late royal houses of
France, Spain, and Russia are said, by current
rumor, to have sought the spirits for knowledge.
No cause could covet more rapid and wide-spread
success than this has enjoyed.
</p>

</div>

</div>

<pb n='032'/><anchor id='Pg032'/>

<div rend="page-break-before: always">
<index index="toc" level1="Chapter Two. What is the Agency in Question?"/>
<index index="pdf" level1="Chapter Two."/>
<head type="sub">Chapter Two.</head>
<head>What is the Agency in Question?</head>

<p>
Having now shown that there are connected with
Spiritualism supermundane phenomena that
cannot be denied, and equally evident superhuman
intelligence, sufficient to give to the movement unprecedented
recognition in all the world, the way
is open for the most important question that can be
raised concerning it, and one which now demands
an answer; and that is, What is the agency by
which these phenomena are produced, and by which
this intelligence is manifested? This question must
be examined with the utmost care, and, if possible,
a decision be reached of the most assuring certainty;
for, as Mr. M. J. Savage says, <q>Spiritualism
is either a grand truth or a most lamentable
delusion.</q>
</p>

<p>
It is proper that the claim which Spiritualism puts
forth for itself, in this regard, should first be heard.
This is so well known that it scarcely need be stated.
It is that there is in every human being a soul, or
spirit, which constitutes the real person; that this
soul, or spirit, is immortal; that it manifests itself
through a tangible body during this earth life, and
when that body dies, passes unscathed into the unseen
world, into an enlarged sphere of life, activity, and
<pb n='033'/><anchor id='Pg033'/>
intelligence; that in this sphere it can still take cognizance
of earthly things, and communicate with
those still in the flesh, respecting scenes which it has
left, and those more interesting conditions still veiled
from mortal sight; that it is by these disembodied,
or <q>discarnated</q> spirits that raps are given, objects
moved, intelligence manifested, secrets revealed,
slates written, voices uttered, faces shown, and epistles
addressed to mortals, as friend would write to
friend. If this be true, it opens what would indeed
be considered a grand avenue of consolation to
bereaved hearts, by giving them evidence that their
departed friends still lived; that they recognized,
loved, and accompanied them, and delighted still to
counsel and instruct them. If not true, it is a masterpiece
of superhuman craft and cunning; for it
takes Christendom on the side where it is least
guarded; as the view is everywhere held that the
dead are conscious, and the only question would be
as to their power to communicate with persons still
living in the body; and it throws its arms around
the individual when the heart is the most tender,
when plunged into a condition in which every pang
of bereaved sorrow, every tie of affection, and every
throb of love, press him to crave with all his being
that communication with the dead may be proved a
fact, and to constrain him to accept the doctrine, unless
kept from it by some power stronger than the
cords that bind heart to heart in deathless love. If
it be a deception, it occupies a vantage ground before
which men may well tremble.
</p>

<pb n='034'/><anchor id='Pg034'/>

<p>
But, as has been already stated, the question is
here to be discussed from the standpoint of the Bible;
the Bible is to be taken as the standard of authority
by which all conflicting claims respecting the nature
of man, must be decided. The authenticity of the
Scriptures, in reference to those who deny their
authority, is an antecedent question, into the discussion
of which it is not the province of this
little work to enter. A word, however, by way
of digression, may be allowed in reference to its
authorship.
</p>

<div>
<index index="toc"/>
<head>Credentials of the Bible.</head>

<p>
1. The Bible claims to be the word of God.
Those who wrote it assert that they wrote as they
<q>were moved by the Holy Ghost;</q> and they
append to what they utter, a <q>Thus saith the Lord.</q>
</p>

<p>
2. If it is not what it claims to be, it is an <emph>imposture</emph>
invented by <emph>deceivers</emph> and <emph>liars</emph>.
</p>

<p>
3. <emph>Good</emph> men would not deceive and lie; therefore
they were not the ones who invented the Bible.
</p>

<p>
4. If, therefore, it was invented by men at all, it
must have been invented by <emph>bad</emph> men.
</p>

<p>
5. All liars and religious impostors are bad men;
but&mdash;
</p>

<p>
6. The Bible repeatedly and most explicitly forbids
lying and imposture, under the threatening of
most condign punishment.
</p>

<p>
7. Would, therefore, liars and impostors invent
a book which more than any other book ever written,
denounces lying and imposture, thus condemning
<pb n='035'/><anchor id='Pg035'/>
themselves to the severest judgments of God, and at
last to eternal death?
</p>

<p>
8. If, then, the Bible is not the invention of
good men,&mdash;because such men would not lie and
deceive; nor of evil men,&mdash;because such men
would not condemn themselves; nor of good or evil
angels, for the same reasons, who else can be its
author, but he who claims to be, that is, the living
God?
</p>

<p>
9. If, therefore, from the very nature of the case,
it must be God's book, why not believe it, and
obey it?
</p>

<p>
To return: Appeal is therefore made to the
Bible; and the object is to learn what the Bible
teaches about Spiritualism. When the claim is put
forth that it is the disembodied spirits of dead men
who make the communications, the Bible reader is at
once aware of a conflict of claims. In times when
the Bible was written, there were practices among
men which went under the names of <q>enchantment,</q>
<q>sorcery,</q> <q>witchcraft,</q> <q>necromancy,</q>
<q>divination,</q> <q>consulting with familiar spirits,</q>
etc. These practices were all more or less related,
but some of them bear an unmistakable meaning.
Thus, <q>necromancy</q> is defined to mean <q>a pretended
communication with the dead.</q> A <q>familiar
spirit</q> was <q>a spirit or demon supposed to attend
on an individual, or to come at his call; the invisible
agent of a necromancer's will.</q>&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>Century Dictionary.</hi>
Spiritualists do not deny that their intercourse
with the invisible world comes under some, at
<pb n='036'/><anchor id='Pg036'/>
least, of these heads. But all such practices the
Bible explicitly forbids.
</p>

<p>
Deut. 18:9-12: <q>There shall not be found
among you any one that maketh his son or his
daughter to pass through the fire, or that useth
divination, or an observer of times, or an enchanter,
or a witch, or a charmer, or a consulter with <emph>familiar
spirits</emph>, or a wizard, or a <emph>necromancer</emph>. For all that
do these things are an abomination unto the Lord.</q>
Lev. 19:31: <q>Regard not them that have familiar
spirits, neither seek after wizards, to be defiled by
them: I am the Lord your God.</q> See also, 2
Kings 21:2, 6, 9, 11; Rev. 21:8; Gal. 5:19-21;
Acts 16:16-18; etc. Thus plainly in both the Old
and New Testaments, are these practices forbidden.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index="toc"/>
<head>An Impossibility.</head>

<p>
But why does the Bible forbid such practices as
necromancy, or a <q>pretended</q> communication with
the dead?&mdash;Because it would be only a pretense at
best; for such communication is impossible. The
dead are unconscious in their graves, and have no
power to communicate with the living. Let this
truth be once established, and it is the death-blow to
the claims of Spiritualism, in the cases of all who
will receive it. Allusion has already been made to
a popular and wide-spread dogma in the Christian
church which furnishes a basis for Spiritualism. It
is that the soul is immortal, and that the dead are
conscious. Spirits make known their presence, and
claim to be the spirits of persons who have once lived
<pb n='037'/><anchor id='Pg037'/>
here in human bodies. Now if the Bible teaches
that there is no such thing as a disembodied human
spirit, a knowledge of that fact would enable one to
detect at once the imposture of any intelligence
which from behind the curtain should claim to be
such spirit. Any spirit seeking the attention of men
in this life, and claiming to be what the Bible says
does not exist, comes with a falsehood on its lips or
in its raps, if the Bible is true, and thus reveals its
real character to be that of a deceiver. In this case
the Bible believer is armed against the imposture.
No man likes to be fooled. No matter therefore
how nice the communicating intelligence may seem,
how many true things it may say, or how many good
things it may promise, the conviction cannot be
evaded that no real good can be intended or conferred
by any spirit, or whatever it may be, masquerading
under the garb of falsehood, or pretending to
be what it is not. On such a foundation no stable
superstructure can be reared. It becomes a death-trap,
sure to collapse and involve in ruin all those
who trust therein.
</p>

<p>
It is very desirable that the reader comprehend
the full importance of the doctrine, as related to this
subject, that the dead are unconscious and that they
have no power to communicate with the living.
This being established, it sweeps away at one stroke
the entire foundation of Spiritualism. Evidence will
now be presented to show that this is a Bible doctrine;
and wherever this is received, the fabric of
Spiritualism from base to finial falls; it cannot
<pb n='038'/><anchor id='Pg038'/>
possibly stand. But where the doctrine prevails
that only the thin veil that limits our mortal vision,
separates us from a world full of the conscious,
intelligent spirits of those who have departed this
life, Spiritualism has the field, beyond the possibility
of dislodgment. When one believes that he has
disembodied spirit friends all about him, how can
he question that they are able to communicate with
him? and when some unseen intelligence makes its
presence known, and claims to be one of those
friends, and refers to facts or scenes, known only to
them two, how can the living dispute the claim?
How can he refuse to accept a claim, which, on his
own hypothesis, there is no conceivable reason to
deny? But if the spirits are not what they claim
to be, how shall the inexplicable phenomena attending
their manifestations be explained?&mdash;The Bible
brings to view other agencies, not the so-called
spirits of the departed, to whose working all that
has ever been manifested which to mortal vision
is mysterious and inexplicable, may be justly attributed.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index="toc"/>
<head>The Soul Not Immortal.</head>

<p>
Spiritualism declares it to be the great object of
its mission, to prove the immortality of the soul,
which, it says, is not taught in the Scriptures with
sufficient clearness, and is not otherwise demonstrated.
It well attributes to the Scriptures a lack
of plain teaching in support of that dogma; and it
would have stated more truth, if it had said that the
<pb n='039'/><anchor id='Pg039'/>
Scriptures nowhere countenance such a doctrine at
all. But, it is said, the Scriptures are full of the
terms, <q>soul</q> and <q>spirit.</q> Very true; but they
nowhere use those terms to designate such a part
of man as in common parlance, and in popular theology,
they have come to mean. The fact is, the
popular concept of the <q>soul</q> and <q>spirit</q> has
been formulated entirely outside the Bible. Sedulously,
unremittingly, for six thousand years, the
idea has been inculcated in the minds of men, from
the cradle to the grave, that man is a dual being,
consisting of an outward body which dies, and an
inward being called <q>soul,</q> or <q>spirit,</q> which does
not die, but passes to higher spirit life, when the
body goes into the grave. The father of this doctrine
is rarely referred to by its believers, as authority,
possibly through a little feeling of embarrassment
as to its parentage; for he it was who announced
it to our first parents in these words: <q>Ye shall
not surely die!</q> Gen. 3:4. When men began to
die, it was a shrewd stroke of policy on the part of
him who had promised them that they should not
die, to try to prove to those who remained that the
others had not really died, but only changed conditions.
It is no marvel that he should try to make
men believe that they possessed an immaterial, immortal
entity that could not die; but, in view of the
ghastly experiences of the passing years, it is the
marvel of marvels that he should have succeeded so
well. The trouble now is that men take these
meanings which have been devised and fostered into
<pb n='040'/><anchor id='Pg040'/>
stupendous strength outside the pale of Bible teaching,
and attach them to the Bible terms of <q>soul</q>
and <q>spirit.</q> In other words, the mongrel pago-papal
theology which has grown up in Christendom,
lets the Bible furnish the terms, and paganism the
definitions. But from the Bible standpoint, these
definitions do not belong there; they are foreign to
the truth, and the Bible does not recognize them.
They are as much out of place as was the inventor
of them himself in the garden of Eden. Let the
Bible furnish its own definitions to its own terms,
and all will be clear. The opinion of John Milton,
the celebrated author of Paradise Lost, is worthy of
note. In his <q>Treatise on Christian Doctrine,</q>
Vol. I, pp. 250, 251, he says:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q>Man is a living being, intrinsically and properly one
individual, not compound and separable, not, according to
the common opinion, made up and framed of two distinct
and different natures, as of body and soul, but the whole man
is soul, and the soul, man; that is to say, a body or substance,
individual, animated, sensitive, and rational.</q>
</quote>

<p>
In this sense the word is employed many times;
but whoever will trace the use of the words <q>soul</q>
and <q>spirit</q> through the Bible, will find them
applied also to a great variety of objects; as, person,
mind, heart, body (in the expression <q>a dead body</q>),
will, lust, appetite, breath, creature, pleasure, desire,
anger, courage, blast, etc., etc., in all nearly fifty
different ways. But it is a fact which should be
especially noted, that in not a single instance is there
the least hint given that anything expressed by these
<pb n='041'/><anchor id='Pg041'/>
terms is capable of existing for a single moment, as
a conscious entity, or in any other condition, <emph>without
the body</emph>! This being so, none of these, according
to the Bible, are the agency claimed to be present
in Spiritualism.
</p>

<p>
Another fact in reference to this point, should
be allowed its decisive bearing. The question now
under investigation is, Is the soul immortal, as Spiritualism
has taken upon itself to teach, and claims
to demonstrate? The Bible is found to be so lavish
in the use of the terms <q>soul</q> and <q>spirit,</q> that
these words occur in the aggregate, <emph>seventeen hundred
times</emph>. Seventeen hundred times, by way of description,
analysis, narrative, historical facts, or declarations
of what they can do, or suffer, the Bible has
something to say about <q>soul</q> and <q>spirit.</q> The
most important question to be settled concerning
them, certainly, is whether they are immortal or not.
Will not the Bible, so freely treating of these terms,
answer this question? Very strange, indeed, if it
does not. But does it once affirm that either the
soul or the spirit is immortal?&mdash;<emph>Not once!</emph> Does
it ever apply to them the terms <q>eternal,</q> <q>deathless,</q>
<q>neverdying,</q> or any word that bears the
necessary meaning of immortal?&mdash;Not in a single
instance. Does it apply to them any term from
which even an inference, necessary or remote, can
be drawn that they are immortal? Even reduced to
this attenuated form, the answer is still an emphatic
and overwhelming, <emph>No!</emph> Well, then, does it say
<emph>anything</emph> about the nature and capabilities of existence
<pb n='042'/><anchor id='Pg042'/>
of that which it denominates soul or spirit?&mdash;Yes;
it says the soul is in danger of the grave, may
die, be destroyed, killed, and that the spirit may be
wounded, cut off, preserved, and so, conversely,
made to perish.
</p>

<p>
It is sometimes claimed that it is not necessary
that the Bible should affirm the immortality of the
soul, because it is so self-evident a fact that it is taken
for granted. But no one surely can suppose that
the immortality of the soul is more self-evident than
that of Jehovah; yet the Bible has seen fit to affirm
his immortality in most direct terms. 1 Tim. 1:17:
<q>Now unto the King eternal, <emph>immortal</emph>, invisible,
the only wise God, be honor and glory forever and
ever. Amen.</q> 1 Tim. 6:16: <q>Who only hath
<emph>immortality</emph>, dwelling in the light which no man
can approach unto; whom no man hath seen, nor
can see: to whom be honor and power everlasting.
Amen.</q> Let, then, similar Bible testimony
be found concerning the soul; that is, that it is
<q>immortal,</q> or <q>hath immortality,</q> and the taken-for-granted
device will not be needed.
</p>

</div>

</div>

<pb n='043'/><anchor id='Pg043'/>

<div rend="page-break-befire: always">
<index index="toc" level1="Chapter Three. The Dead Unconscious."/>
<index index="pdf" level1="Chapter Three."/>
<head type="sub">Chapter Three.</head>
<head>The Dead Unconscious.</head>

<p>
From the fact now established that the soul is
not immortal, it would follow as an inevitable
conclusion, that the dead are not conscious in the
intermediate state, and consequently cannot act
the part attributed to them in modern Spiritualism.
But there are some positive statements to which
the reader's attention should be called, and some
instances supposed to prove the conscious state
which should be noticed.
</p>

<p>
1. <hi rend='italic'>The Dead Know not Anything.</hi>&mdash;As a sample
of the way the Bible speaks upon this question, let
the reader turn to the words of Solomon, in Eccl.
9:5, 6, 10: <q>For the living know that they shall
die: but the dead know not anything, neither have
they any more a reward; for the memory of them
is forgotten. Also their love, and their hatred, and
their envy, is now perished; neither have they any
more a portion for ever in anything that is done
under the sun.... Whatsoever thy hand findeth
to do, do it with thy might; for there is no work,
nor device, nor knowledge, nor wisdom, in the
grave, whither thou goest.</q>
</p>

<p>
This language is addressed to the real, living,
intelligent, responsible man; and how could it be
<pb n='044'/><anchor id='Pg044'/>
plainer? On the hypothesis of the commonly believed
distinction between the soul and the body,
this must be addressed to the soul; for the body
considered as the mere material instrument through
which the soul acts, is not supposed of itself to know
anything. The body, as a body, independent of the
soul, does not know that it shall die; but it is that
which knows, while one is alive, that it shall die&mdash;it
is that same intelligent being that, when dead,
knows not anything. But the spirits in Spiritualism
do know many things in their condition; therefore
they are not those who have once lived on this earth,
and passed off through death; for such, once dead,
this scripture affirms, know not anything&mdash;they are
in a condition in which there is <q>no work, nor device,
nor knowledge, nor wisdom.</q> This is a plain,
straightforward, literal statement; there is no mistaking
its meaning; and if it is true, then it is not
true that the unseen agents working through Spiritualism,
are the spirits of the dead.
</p>

<p>
2. <hi rend='italic'>The Spirit Returns to God.</hi>&mdash;Another passage
from the same writer and the same book, may
recur to the mind of the reader, as expressing a
different and contradictory thought. Eccl. 12:7.
<q>Then shall the dust return to the earth as it was:
and the spirit shall return unto God who gave it.</q>
A careful analysis of this passage reveals no support
for Spiritualism; for it does not say that the spirit,
on returning to God, is conscious, or is capable of
coming back and communicating with mortals. It is
not denied that different component parts enter into
<pb n='045'/><anchor id='Pg045'/>
the constitution of man; and that these parts may
be separated. Solomon himself may therefore tell
us what he means by the term <q>spirit</q> which he
here uses. He employs the same word in chapter.
3:21 of this same book, but says that beasts have
it as well as men. And then in verse 19, he explains
what he means, by saying that they (man
and the lower animals) <emph>all</emph> have one <emph>breath</emph>. The
record of man's creation in Gen. 2:7, shows that a
vitalizing principle, called the <q>breath of life,</q> was
necessary to be imparted to the organized body, before
man became a living being; and this breath of
life, as common to man and to all breathing animals,
is described in Gen. 7:21, 22, by the term רוח
(<hi rend='italic'>ruahh</hi>), the same word that is used for <q>breath,</q>
in Eccl. 3:19, <q>spirit,</q> in verse 21, and <q>the
spirit,</q> which God gave to man, and which returns
to God, in chapter 12:7. Thus it is clear that reference
is here made simply to the <q>breath of life</q>
which God at first imparted to man, to make him a
living being, and which he withdraws to himself, in
the hour of man's death. Job states the same fact,
and describes the process, in chapter 34:14, 15:
<q>If he [God] set his heart upon man, if he gather
<emph>unto himself</emph> his [man's] spirit [same word] and his
breath; ... man shall turn again unto dust.</q> No
one can fail to see here that Job refers to the same
event of which Solomon speaks.
</p>

<p>
And at this point the question may as well be
raised, and answered, Whence comes this spirit
which is claimed to be the real man, capable of an
<pb n='046'/><anchor id='Pg046'/>
independent and superior existence without the
body? Bodies come into existence by natural generation;
but whence comes the spirit? Is it a part
of the body? If so, it cannot be immortal; for
<q>that which is born of the flesh is flesh.</q> John
3:6. Is it supplied to human beings at birth? If
so, is there a great storehouse, somewhere, of souls
and spirits, ready-made, from which the supply is
drawn as fast as wanted in this world? And if so,
further, is it to be concluded that all spirits have had
a pre-existence? and then what was their condition
in that state? And again, how does it happen, on
this supposition, that this spirit in each individual
exhibits so largely the mental and moral traits of
the earthly parents? These hypotheses not being
very satisfactory, will it be claimed that God creates
these spirits as fast as children are born to need
them? and if so, who brings them down just in the
nick of time? and by what process are they incarnated?
But if God has, by special act, created a
soul or spirit for every member of the human family
since Adam, is it not a contradiction of Gen. 2:2,
which declares that <emph>all</emph> God's work of creation, so
far as it pertains to this world, was <emph>completed</emph> by the
close of the first week of time? Again, how many
of the inhabitants of this earth are the offspring of
abandoned criminality; and can it be supposed that
God holds himself in readiness to create souls which
must come from his hands pure as the dew of heaven,
to be thrust into such vile tenements, and doomed
to a life of wretchedness and woe at the bidding of
<pb n='047'/><anchor id='Pg047'/>
defiant lust? The irreverence of the question will
be pardoned as an exposure of the absurdity of that
theory which necessitates it.
</p>

<p>
3. <hi rend='italic'>The Spirits of Just Men Made Perfect.</hi>&mdash;This
expression is found in Heb. 12:23, and seems, by
some, to recognize the idea that spirits can exist
without the body, and are to be treated as separate
entities. Thus interpreted it might appear to give
some support to Spiritualism. But it will by no
means bear such an interpretation. The apostle is
contrasting the privileges of Christians in the present
dispensation, with the situation of believers before the
coming of Christ. What he sets forth are blessings
to be enjoyed in the present tense. Yes, says one,
that is just what I believe: We are come to spirits;
they are all about us, and tip and talk and write for
us at our pleasure. But hold! nothing is affirmed
of spirits separately. The whole idea must be taken
in. It is the <q>spirits of <emph>just men</emph> made perfect;</q>
and the participle <q>made perfect</q> agrees with
<q>just men,</q> or literally <q>the just made perfect</q>
(δικαίων τετελειωμένων), not with <q>spirits.</q> It is the
<emph>men</emph> who are made perfect to whom we are said to
have come. But there are only two localities and
two periods, in which men are anywhere in the
Scriptures said to be made perfect. One is in this
life and on this earth, and refers to religious experience
(<q>Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father
which is in heaven is perfect</q>); the other is not
relative, but actual and absolute, and refers to the
future immortal state when all the people of God
<pb n='048'/><anchor id='Pg048'/>
will enter upon eternal life together (<q>God having
provided some better thing for us, that they [the
ancient worthies] without us should not be <emph>made
perfect</emph>.</q> Heb. 11:40). Thus, taken in either of
the only two ways possible, the text furnishes no
proof of Spiritualism. It doubtless refers to the
present state, the expression, <q>spirits of just men,</q>
being simply a periphrasis for <q>just men,</q> the same
as the expression, <q>the God of the spirits of all
flesh</q> (Num. 16:22), means simply <q>the God of
all flesh,</q> and the words <q>your whole spirit, and
soul, and body</q> (1 Thess. 5:23), means simply
the whole person.
</p>

<p>
4. <hi rend='italic'>Spirits in Prison.</hi>&mdash;The apostle Peter uses
an expression, which, though perhaps not often
quoted in direct defense of Spiritualism, is relied
upon extensively in behalf of the doctrine of the
conscious state of the dead, which, as already shown,
is the essential basis of Spiritualism. And such
texts as these are here noticed to show to the general
reader, that the Bible contains no testimony in
behalf of that doctrine, but positively forbids it, as
further quotations will soon be introduced to show.
The passage now in question is 1 Peter 3:19, where,
speaking of Christ, it says: <q>By which also he went
and preached unto the spirits in prison.</q> By the
use of strong assumption, and some lofty flights of
the imagination, and keeping in the background the
real intent of the passage, a picture of rather a lively
time in the spirit world, can be constructed out of
this testimony. Thus the spirits are said to be
<pb n='049'/><anchor id='Pg049'/>
the disembodied spirits of those who were destroyed
by the flood. See context. They were in <q>prison,</q>
that is, in hell. When Christ was put to death upon
the cross, he immediately went by his disembodied
spirit, down into hell and preached to those conscious
intelligent spirits who were there, and continued that
work till the third day when he was himself raised
from the dead. A thought will show that this
picture is wrong, (1) in the time, (2) in the condition
of the people, (3) in the acting agent, and (4) in the
end to be attained. Thus, when Christ had been
put to death, he was <q>quickened</q> (or made alive),
says the record, <q>by the Spirit.</q> This was certainly
not a personal disembodied spirit, but that
divine agency so often referred to in the Scriptures.
<q>By which,</q> that is, this Spirit of God, he went
and preached. Then he did not go personally on
this work. The <q>spirits</q> were the antediluvians;
for they were those who were disobedient in the
days of Noah. Now when were they preached to?
Verse 20 plainly tells us it was <q><emph>when</emph> once the
longsuffering of God waited <emph>in the days of Noah</emph>.</q>
In accordance with these statements now let another
picture be presented: Christ, by his Spirit which was
in Noah (1 Peter 1:11), and thus through Noah,
preached to the spirits, or persons, in Noah's time,
who were disobedient, in order to save all from the
coming flood who would believe. They were said
to be <q>in prison,</q> though still living, because they
were shut up under condemnation, and had only one
hundred and twenty years granted them in which to
<pb n='050'/><anchor id='Pg050'/>
repent or perish. Thus Christ was commissioned
to preach to men said to be in prison, because in
darkness, error, and condemnation, though they
were still living in the flesh. Isa. 61:1. Dr.
Adam Clarke, the eminent Methodist commentator
(<hi rend='italic'>in loco</hi>), places the going and preaching of Christ
in the days of Noah, and by the ministry of Noah
for one hundred and twenty years, and not during
the time while he lay in the grave. Then he says:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q>The word πνεῦμασι (spirits) is supposed to render this
view of the subject improbable, because this must mean <emph>disembodied</emph>
spirits; but this certainly does not follow; for the
<emph>spirits of just men made perfect</emph> (Heb. 12:23), certainly means
righteous men, and men <emph>still in the church militant</emph>: and the
Father of spirits (Heb. 12:9) means men still in the body;
and the God of the spirits of all flesh (Num. 16:22 and 27:16),
means <emph>men, not</emph> in a disembodied state.</q><note
place='foot'>Original edition.</note>
</quote>

<p>
5. <hi rend='italic'>Cannot Kill the Soul.</hi>&mdash;<q>Fear not them
which kill the body, but are not able to kill the soul:
but rather fear him which is able to destroy both
soul and body in hell.</q> Matt. 10:28. We know
what it is to kill the body; and by association of
ideas, it seems quite natural to form a like conception
of the soul as something that can be treated in
the same way. Then if the soul cannot be killed
like the body, the conclusion seems easy of adoption
that it lives right on, with all sensations preserved,
as it was with the body before its death. If it were
not for the pagan definition of <q>soul,</q> which here
comes in to change the current of thought, such
<pb n='051'/><anchor id='Pg051'/>
conclusions drawn from this text would not be so
prevalent; and a little attention to the scope of
Christ's teaching here will readily correct the misapprehension.
This is brought out clearly in verse
39: <q>He that findeth his <emph>life</emph> shall lose it: and he
that loseth his <emph>life</emph> for my sake shall find it.</q> This
is easily understood. No one will question what it
is to lose his life; and Christ says that he who will
do this for his sake, shall find it. Any one who has
been put to death for his faith in the gospel has
<q>lost his life</q> (had the body killed) for Christ's
sake. But Christ says, Do not fear them, even if
they do this. Why?&mdash;Because ye shall find it&mdash;the
life you lost. When shall we find it?&mdash;In the
resurrection. John 6:40; Rev. 20:4-6. The expression,
<q>shall find it,</q> thus becomes the exact
equivalent of the words, <q>are not able to kill the
soul;</q> that is, are not able to destroy, or prevent us
from gaining that life he has promised, if we suffer
men, for his sake, to <q>kill the body,</q> or deprive us
of our present life. The correctness of this view is
demonstrated by the word employed in these instances.
That word is ψυχή (<hi rend='italic'>psuche</hi>). It is properly
rendered <q>life</q> in verse 39, and improperly rendered
<q>soul</q> in verse 28. This lesson, that men
should be willing to lose their life for Christ's sake,
was considered so important that it is again mentioned
in Matthew, and reiterated with emphasis by
Mark, Luke, and John; and they all use this same
word ψυχή, which is rendered <q>life.</q> In one instance
only in all these parallel passages have the
<pb n='052'/><anchor id='Pg052'/>
translators rendered it <q>soul;</q> and that is Matt.
10:28, where it is the source of all the misunderstanding
on that text.
</p>

<p>
6. <hi rend='italic'>Souls Under the Altar.</hi>&mdash;As a part of the
events of the fifth seal as described in Rev. 6:9-11,
John says he saw the souls of the martyrs under the
altar, and heard them crying for vengeance. If they
could do that, it is asked, cannot disembodied souls
now communicate with the living? Not to enter
into a full exposition of this scripture, and the inconsistencies
such a view would involve, it is sufficient
to ask if these were like the communicating spirits of
the present day. How many communications have
ever been received by modern Spiritualists from
souls confined under an altar? In glowing symbolism,
John saw the dead martyrs, as if slain at the
foot of the altar; and by the figure of personification
a voice was given to them, just as Abel's blood
cried to God for vengeance upon his guilty brother
(Gen. 4:10), and just as the stone is said to cry
out of the wall, and the beam out of the timber
to answer it. Hab. 2:11.
</p>

<p>
7. <hi rend='italic'>The Medium of Endor.</hi>&mdash;Aside from the
direct teaching of the Scriptures, it is still held by
some that there are scenes narrated in the Bible
which show that the dead must be conscious. The
first of these is the case of Saul and the woman of
Endor, whom he consulted in order to communicate
with the prophet Samuel, as narrated in 1 Samuel 28.
Here, it must be confessed, is brought to view
an actual case of spirit manifestation, a specimen of
<pb n='053'/><anchor id='Pg053'/>
ancient necromancy; for the conditions, method of
procedure, and results, were just such as pertain to
the same work in our own day. But then, as now,
there was no truth nor good in it, as a brief review
of the narrative will show. (1) Samuel was dead.
(2) Saul was sore pressed by the Philistines. Verse
5. (3) God had departed from him. Verse 4.
(4) He had cut off those who had familiar spirits
and wizards, out of the land, because God had forbidden
their presence in the Jewish theocracy, as
an abomination. Verse 3; Lev. 19:31. (5) Yet
in his extremity he had recourse to a woman with
a familiar spirit, found at Endor. Verse 7. (6)
She asked whom she should bring up, and Saul
answered, Samuel. Verse 11. (7) Saul was disguised,
but the familiar spirit told the woman it was
Saul, and she cried out in alarm. Verse 12. (8)
Saul reassured her, and the woman went on with
the séance. Verse 10. (9) She announced a presence
coming (not from heaven, nor the spheres,
but) up out of the earth, and at Saul's request gave
a description of him, showing that Saul did not himself
see the form. Verse 13. (10) Saul <q>perceived</q>
that it was Samuel (not by actual sight, but
from the woman's description; for the Hebrew ירע
and the Septuagint, γινωσκώ, signify to know, or
perceive, by an operation of the mind.) Verse 14.
(11) The woman supposed it was Samuel; Saul
supposed it was Samuel; and that personation is,
then, by the law of appearance, spoken of, in whatever
it said or did, as Samuel; as, <q>Samuel said to
<pb n='054'/><anchor id='Pg054'/>
Saul,</q> etc. Verse 15. (12) Was Samuel really
there as an immortal soul, a disembodied spirit, or
as one raised from the dead?&mdash;No; because (<hi rend='italic'>a</hi>) immortal
souls do not come up out of the ground,
wrapped in mantles, and complain of being disquieted
and brought up; (<hi rend='italic'>b</hi>) Samuel was a holy
prophet, and if he was conscious in the spirit world,
he would not present himself at the summons of a
woman who was practicing arts which God had forbidden;
(<hi rend='italic'>c</hi>) God having departed from Saul, and
having refused to communicate with him on account
of his sins, would not now suffer his servant Samuel
to grant him the desired communication through a
channel which he had pronounced an abomination;
(<hi rend='italic'>d</hi>) Samuel was not present by a resurrection, for
the Devil could not raise him, and God certainly
would not, for such a purpose; besides Samuel was
buried at Ramah, and could not be raised at Endor;
(<hi rend='italic'>e</hi>) It was only the woman's familiar spirit, personating
Samuel as he used to appear when alive&mdash;an
aged man clothed with a mantle. His object was to
make both the woman and Saul believe it was
Samuel, when it was not, just as communicating
spirits to-day try to palm themselves off for what
they are not. As a specimen of ancient Spiritualism,
this case is no particular honor to their cause;
and as a proof of the immortality of the soul, and
the conscious state of the dead, it is a minus
quantity.
</p>

<p>
8. <hi rend='italic'>The Transfiguration.</hi>&mdash;Jesus took three of
his disciples, Peter, James, and John, apart into a
<pb n='055'/><anchor id='Pg055'/>
high mountain, and was transfigured before them;
his face became as the sun, and his raiment was
white as the light, just as it will be in the future
kingdom of glory, which this scene was designed to
represent. And there then appeared Moses and
Elias talking with Christ. But Moses had died in
the land of Moab nearly fifteen hundred years
before, and it is at once concluded that the only
way to account for his appearance on this occasion,
is to suppose that he was still alive in the spirit
world, and could appear in a disembodied state,
and talk with Jesus as here represented. But such
a conclusion is by no means necessary. Jesus was
there in person, Elias was there in person; for he
had not died, but had been translated bodily from
this earth. Now it would be altogether incongruous
to suppose that the third member of this glorious
trio, apparently just as real as the others, was only a
disembodied spirit; an immaterial phantom. Unless
the whole scene was merely a vision brought before
the minds of the disciples, Moses was as really there,
in his own proper person, as Jesus and Elias. But
there is no way in which he could thus be present,
except by means of a resurrection from the dead;
and that he had been raised, and was there as a
representative of the resurrection, is proved, first by
his actual presence on this occasion, and secondly,
by the fact that Michael (Christ, who is <q>the resurrection
and the life,</q> John 11:25) disputed with
the Devil (who has the power of death, Heb. 2:14)
about the body of Moses. Jude 9. There could be
<pb n='056'/><anchor id='Pg056'/>
no other possible ground of controversy about the
body of Moses except whether or not Christ should
give it life before the general resurrection. But
Christ rebuked the Devil. Christ was not thwarted
in this contest, but gave his servant life; and thus
Moses could appear personally upon the mount.
This makes the scene complete as a representation
of the kingdom of God, as Peter says it was (2 Peter
1:16-18); namely, Christ the glorified King, Elias
representing those who will be translated without
seeing death, and Moses representing those who will
be raised from the dead. These two classes embrace
all the happy subjects of that kingdom. This view
of the matter is not peculiar to this book. Dr.
Adam Clarke, on Matt. 17:3, says: <q>The body
of Moses was probably raised again, as a pledge of
the resurrection.</q><note place='foot'>Original edition. Not
found in the mutilated edition, revised by
Dr. Curry.</note> And Olshausen says: <q>For
if we assume the reality of the <emph>resurrection of the
body</emph>, and its glorification,&mdash;truths which assuredly
belong to the system of Christian doctrine,&mdash;the
whole occurrence presents no essential difficulties.
The appearance of Moses and Elias, which is usually
held to be the most unintelligible point in it, is
as easily conceived of as possible, if we admit their
bodily glorification.</q>
</p>

<p>
Those passages which speak of Christ as the
<q>first-fruits,</q> the <q>first-born from the dead,</q> the
<q>first-born among many brethren,</q> <q>of every creature,</q>
etc., refer only to the chief and pivotal importance
<pb n='057'/><anchor id='Pg057'/>
of his own resurrection, as related to all
others; and Acts 26:23 does not declare that Christ
should be the first one to be raised from the dead,
but that he first, by a resurrection from the dead,
should show light to the Gentiles. (See the Greek
of this passage.) These scriptures therefore prove
no objection to the idea that Moses had been raised
from the dead, and as a victor over the grave, appeared
with Christ upon the mount. Thus another
supposed stronghold affords no refuge for the conscious-state
theory, or for Spiritualism.
</p>

<p>
9. <hi rend='italic'>The Rich Man and Lazarus.</hi>&mdash;With the features
of this parable, as found in Luke 16, which is
supposed to prove the dead conscious, and Spiritualism
possible, the reader is doubtless familiar. It
should ever be borne in mind that this is a parable;
and in a parable, neither the parties nor the scenes
are to be taken literally, and hence no doctrines
can be built upon such symbolic representations.
But not only is it a parable, but it is a parable
based upon traditions largely entertained by the
Jews themselves in the time of Christ. Thus
T. J. Hudson (<q>Law of Psychic Phenomena,</q> p.
385) says:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q>It is a historical fact, nevertheless, that before the advent
of Jesus, the Jews had become imbued with the Greek
doctrine of Hades, which was an intermediate waiting station
between this life and the judgment. In this were situated
both Paradise and Gehenna, the one on the right, and the
other on the left, and into these two compartments the spirits
of the dead were separated, according to their deserts. Jesus
found this doctrine already in existence, and in enforcing
<pb n='058'/><anchor id='Pg058'/>
his moral precepts in his parables, he employed the symbols
which the people understood, neither denying nor affirming
their literal verity.</q>
</quote>

<p>
Thus Christ appealed to the people on their own
ground. He took the views and traditions which he
found already among them, and arranged them into
a parable in such a way as to rebuke their covetousness,
correct their notions that prosperity and riches
in this life are tokens of the favor and approbation
of God, and condemn their departure from the teachings
of Moses and the prophets. As a parable, it
is not designed to show the state of the dead, and
the conditions that prevail in the spirit world. But
if any persist that it is not a parable, but a presentation
of actual fact, then the scene is laid, not in
the intermediate state, but beyond the resurrection;
for it is after the angels had carried Lazarus into
Abraham's bosom. But the angels do not bear any
one anywhere away from this earth, till the second
coming of Christ and the resurrection of the dead.
Matt. 24:30, 31; 1 Thess. 4:15-17. Finding no
support in this portion of scripture for the conscious-state
theory, with its spiritualistic possibilities, appeal
is next made by the friends of that theory to the
case of&mdash;
</p>

<p>
10. <hi rend='italic'>The Thief on the Cross.</hi>&mdash;Luke 23:39-43.
When one of the malefactors who were crucified
with Jesus, requested to be remembered when he
should come into his kingdom, according to the
record in the common version, the Lord replied,
<q>To-day shalt thou be with me in paradise.</q> To
<pb n='059'/><anchor id='Pg059'/>
go from death into paradise the same day, means to
go into the spirit world without a body, or discarnated,
as Spiritualists claim. And so it would be
if such was Christ's promise to the thief; but it
was not.
</p>

<p>
The little adverb <q>to-day</q> holds the balance
of power as to the meaning of this text. If it qualifies
Christ's words, <q>Verily I say unto thee,</q> it
gives one idea; if it qualifies the words, <q>Thou shalt
be with me in paradise,</q> we have another and very
different idea. And how shall the question of its
relationship be decided?&mdash;It can be done only by the
punctuation.
</p>

<p>
Here another difficulty confronts us; for the
Greek was originally written in a solid line of letters,
without any punctuation, or even division into
words. Such being the case, the punctuation, and
the relation of the qualifying word <q>to-day,</q> must
be determined by the context. Now it is a fact that
Christ did not go to paradise that day. He died, and
was placed in the tomb, and the third day rose from
the dead. Mary was the first to meet him, and
sought to worship him. But he said, <q>Touch me
not, for I am not yet ascended to my Father.</q> John
20:17. Paradise is where the Father is (see 2 Cor.
12:2-4; Rev. 2:7; 22:1, 2), and if Christ had not
been to his Father when Mary met him the third day
after his crucifixion, he had not then been to paradise;
therefore it is not possible that he made a
promise to the thief on the day of his crucifixion,
that he should be with him <emph>that</emph> day in paradise.
</p>

<pb n='060'/><anchor id='Pg060'/>

<p>
But further, the day of the crucifixion was the
day before the Sabbath; and it was not lawful to
leave criminals on the cross during that day. John
19:31. If they were still living when the time came
to take them from the cross, they were taken down,
and their legs were broken to prevent their escape.
The soldiers on this occasion broke the legs of the
two thieves, because they were still alive; <q>but
when they came to Jesus and saw that he was
dead already, they brake not his legs.</q> Verses
32, 33. The thief therefore lived over into the
next day.
</p>

<p>
Thus there are two absolutely insuperable objections
against allowing the adverb, <q>to-day,</q> to
qualify Christ's promise, <q>Thou shalt be with me in
paradise:</q> (1) Christ did not go to paradise that
day; and (2) The thief did not die that day. Before
these facts the conscious-state argument built upon
this incident, vanishes into thin air. Just place the
comma (a punctuation mark not invented till 1490)
after <q>to-day</q> instead of before it, and let that
word qualify the verb <q>say</q> and emphasize the
time when it was spoken, and all is harmonious.
The thief's request did not pertain to that day, but
looked forward to the time when Christ should come
into his kingdom; and Christ's promise did not
pertain to that day, but to the time in the thief's
request; so he did not falsify it by not going to
his Father for three days afterward. The thief is
quietly slumbering in the tomb; but Christ is soon
coming into his kingdom. Then the thief will be
<pb n='061'/><anchor id='Pg061'/>
remembered, be raised from the dead, and be with
Christ in that paradise into which he will then
introduce all his people. Thus all is as clear as a
sunbeam, when the text is freed from the bungling
tinkering of men.
</p>

<p>
The strongest texts and incidents which are appealed
to in defense of the conscious-state theory,
have now been examined. If these do not sustain
it, nothing can be found in the Bible which will
sustain it. All are easily harmonized with these.
Thus in Paul's desire to <q>depart and be with
Christ</q> (Phil. 1:23), he does not there tell us
<emph>when</emph> he will be with Christ; but he does tell us in
many other places; and it is at the resurrection and
the coming of Christ. Phil. 3:11; 1 Thess. 4:16,
17. When he speaks of our being clothed upon
with our house from heaven (2 Cor. 5:2), he tells
us that it is when <q>mortality</q> is <q>swallowed up of
life.</q> But that is only at the last trump. 1 Cor.
15:51-54. If we are told about the woman who
had had seven husbands (Matt. 22:23-28), no hint
is given of any reunion till after the resurrection.
If God calls himself <q>not the God of the dead, but
of the living</q> (Matt. 22:32), it is because he
speaks of <q>those things that be not as though they
were</q> (Rom. 4:17), and the worthies of whom this
is spoken, are sure to live again (Heb. 11:15, 16),
and hence are now spoken of as alive in his sight,
because they are so in his purpose. Texts which
speak of the departure and return of the soul (Gen.
35:18; 1 Kings 17:21, 22), are referable to the
<pb n='062'/><anchor id='Pg062'/>
<q>breath of life,</q> which is the meaning of the word
in these instances rendered <q>soul.</q>
</p>

<p>
Three passages only have been referred to, which
declare positively that the dead know not anything.
It was thought preferable to answer certain objections,
before introducing further direct testimony.
But there are many such passages, a few more of
which will now be presented, as a fitting conclusion
to this branch of the subject. The reader's careful
attention is invited to a few of the various texts, and
the conclusions that follow therefrom.
</p>

<p>
1. <hi rend='italic'>Death and Sleep.</hi>&mdash;Death, in numerous passages
is compared to sleep, in contrast with the
wakeful condition. See Ps. 13:3; Job 7:21; John
11:11; Acts 7:60; 1 Cor. 11:30; 15:51; 1 Thess.
4:14; etc. But there is only one feature in sleep
by virtue of which it can be taken as a figure of
death; and that is, the condition of unconsciousness
which shuts up the avenues of one's senses to all
one's environment. If one is not thus unconscious
in death, the figure is false, and the comparison
illogical and misleading.
</p>

<p>
2. <hi rend='italic'>Thoughts Perish.</hi>&mdash;So David testifies: <q>Put
not your trust in princes, nor in the son of man, in
whom there is no help. His breath goeth forth, he
returneth to his earth; in that very day his thoughts
perish.</q> Ps. 146:3, 4. The word <q>thoughts</q>
does not here mean simply the projects and purposes
one has in view, which do often fail, when the
author of them dies, but it is from a root which
means the act of thinking, the operation of the mind;
<pb n='063'/><anchor id='Pg063'/>
and in death, that entirely ceases. It cannot therefore
be the dead who come out of the unseen with
such intelligence as is shown in Spiritualism.
</p>

<p>
3. <hi rend='italic'>Job's Statement.</hi>&mdash;Speaking of a dead man,
Job (14:21) says: <q>His sons come to honor, and
he knoweth it not; and they are brought low, but he
perceiveth it not of them.</q> If the dead cannot take
cognizance of matters of so much interest as these,
how can they communicate with the living as the
spirits do?
</p>

<p>
4. <hi rend='italic'>No Remembrance of God.</hi>&mdash;David, in Ps.
6:5 and 115:17, again testifies: <q>For in death
there is no remembrance of thee: in the grave who
shall give thee thanks?</q> <q>The dead praise not the
Lord, neither any that go down into silence.</q> Is it
possible that any righteous man, if he is living and
conscious after going into the grave, would not
praise and give thanks to the Lord?
</p>

<p>
5. <hi rend='italic'>Hezekiah's Testimony.</hi>&mdash;Hezekiah was sick
unto death. Isa. 38:1. But he prayed, and the
Lord added to his days fifteen years. Verse 5.
For this he praised the Lord, and gave his reasons
for so doing in the following words (verses 18, 19):
<q>For the grave cannot praise thee, death cannot
celebrate thee: they that go down into the pit cannot
hope for thy truth. The living, the living, he
shall praise thee, as I do this day.</q> This is a clear
affirmation that in death he would not be able to do
what he was able to do while living.
</p>

<p>
6. <hi rend='italic'>New Testament Evidence.</hi>&mdash;The New Testament
bears a corresponding testimony on this subject.
<pb n='064'/><anchor id='Pg064'/>
None will be saved except such as Christ
raises up at the last day. John 6:39, 40. No one
is to receive any reward before the resurrection.
Luke 14:14; 2 Tim. 4:8. No one can enter God's
kingdom before being judged; but there is no execution
of judgment before the coming of Christ.
2 Tim. 4:1; Acts 17:31; Luke 19:35; etc. If
there is no avenue to a future life by a resurrection,
then all who have gone down in death are perished.
1 Cor. 15:18. Such texts utterly forbid the idea of
consciousness and activity, on the part of any of the
human family, in death.
</p>

<p>
This part of the subject need not be carried
further. It has been dwelt upon so fully simply
because of its determinate bearing on the question
under discussion. Spiritualism rests its whole title
to credence on the claim that the intelligences which
manifest themselves are the spirits of the dead.
The Bible says that they are <emph>not</emph> the spirits of the
dead. Then if the Bible is true, the whole system
rests upon deception and falsehood. No one who
believes this will tamper with Spiritualism. One
cannot have Spiritualism and the Bible, too. One or
the other must be given up. But he who still holds
on to the theory that the dead are conscious, contrary
to the testimony of the Scriptures has no shield
against the Spiritualistic delusion, and the danger is
that he will sooner or later throw the Bible away.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='065'/><anchor id='Pg065'/>

<div rend="page-break-before: always">
<index index="toc" level1="Chapter Four. They Are Evil Angels."/>
<index index="pdf" level1="Chapter Four."/>
<head type="sub">Chapter Four.</head>
<head>They Are Evil Angels.</head>

<p>
As the Bible plainly shows what the spirits which
communicate are <emph>not</emph>, it just as clearly reveals
also what they <emph>are</emph>; so that in no particular is one
left to conjecture or guesswork. There is an order
of beings brought to view in the Scriptures, above
man but lower than God or Christ, called <q>angels.</q>
No Bible believer questions the existence of such
beings. It is sometimes asserted that angels are
departed human spirits; but this cannot be; for they
appear upon the stage of action before a single
human being had died, or a disembodied spirit could
have existed. When the world was created, Job
declares that <q>the morning stars sang together, and
all the sons of God shouted for joy.</q> These are
two of the names applied to these beings, but they
are also known by a number of others. They are
167 times called angels; 61 times, angel of the Lord;
8 times, angel of God; 17 times, his angels; 41
times, cherub and cherubim. There are also such
names as seraphim, chariots, God's hosts, watchers,
holy ones, thrones, dominions, principalities and
powers,&mdash;all referring to the different orders of
these heavenly beings.
</p>

<p>
A part of this host fell into sin, and thereby
became evil, or fallen, angels. A reasonable statement
<pb n='066'/><anchor id='Pg066'/>
of how this came about can be given, but no
reason for the act itself. Sin cannot be explained.
To explain it would be to give a reason for it; and
to give a reason for it would be to excuse it; and
then it would cease to be sin. In the beginning a
condition existed which was in itself right and essential;
but which nevertheless made sin possible. It
is one of the inevitable conditions of the highest
glory of God, that all his creatures should serve him
from choice, under the law of love, and not by compulsion,
as a machine, under the law of necessity.
To secure this end, they must be made free moral
agents. Thus to angels was given the freedom of
the will, the same as to man. They were in a state
of purity and happiness, with every condition favorable
for a continuance in that condition; but in the
free choices of their free wills, they of course had
the power, if they should unaccountably see fit so
to use it, to turn away from truth and right, and
rebel against God. This some of them did. So
we find Jude speaking of <q>the angels that kept not
their first estate</q> (Jude 6), and Peter, of <q>the
angels that sinned</q> (2 Peter 2:4); and these they
further declare, were cast down to Tartarus, and are
reserved in everlasting chains under darkness, unto
the judgment of the great day.
</p>

<p>
There must have been to this rebellion an instigator
and leader; and we accordingly find the Bible
speaking of such a personage; the whole company
being described as <q>the Devil and his angels.</q>
Our Lord pointed out this leader in evil, and his
<pb n='067'/><anchor id='Pg067'/>
work, in John 8:44: <q>Ye are of your Father the
Devil, and the lusts of your father ye will do.
He was a murderer from the beginning, and abode
not in the truth, because there is no truth in him.
When he speaketh a lie, he speaketh of his own:
for he is a liar and the father of it.</q> This reveals
the great facts in his case. He abode not in the
truth. Then he was once in the truth; and as he is
a liar, and the father of it, he was the first one to
depart from truth and introduce falsehood and evil
into the universe of God.
</p>

<p>
In Isaiah (14:12-14) this being is addressed as
Lucifer, or the day-star; and the prophet exclaims,
<q>How art thou fallen from heaven, 0 Lucifer,
son of the morning! how art thou cut down to the
ground, which didst weaken the nations!</q> The following
verses indicate that the nature of his transgression
was self-exaltation and pride of heart:
<q>For thou hast said in thine heart, I will ascend
into heaven, I will exalt my throne above the stars
of God: I will sit also upon the mount of the congregation,
in the sides of the north: I will ascend
above the heights of the clouds; I will be like the
Most High.</q> Paul, in 1 Tim. 3:6, intimates that
it was this pride that caused the ruin of this once
holy being. Of an elder he says that he must not
be a novice, <q>lest being lifted up with pride he fall
into the condemnation of the Devil,</q> or that sin for
which the Devil was condemned.
</p>

<p>
In Ezekiel 28, Satan is again spoken of under the
pseudonym of <q>the prince of Tyrus.</q> Verse 2
<pb n='068'/><anchor id='Pg068'/>
shows his pride: <q>Because thine heart is lifted up,
and thou hast said, I am a God, I sit in the seat
of God,</q> etc. Verses 12-15 describe his beauty,
wisdom, and apparel, and his exalted office as a
high cherub, before his sin and fall. Verse 15
reads: <q>Thou wast perfect in thy ways from the
day thou wast created, till iniquity was found in
thee.</q>
</p>

<p>
These passages give us a sufficient idea of the
origin of Satan and how such an incarnation of evil
has come to exist. The Tartarus into which he and
his angels were cast, according to Peter, is defined
by leading lexicographers, as meaning the dark,
void, interplanetary spaces, surrounding the world.
Using the serpent as a medium, this apostate angel,
thus cast out, plied our first parents with his temptation
by preaching to them the immortality of the
soul, <q>Thou shalt not surely die,</q> and alas! seduced
them also into rebellion. The dominion which was
given to Adam (Gen. 1:28), Adam thus alienated to
Satan, by becoming his servant; for Paul says,
<q>Know ye not, that to whom ye yield yourselves
servants to obey, his servants ye are to whom ye
obey?</q> Rom. 6:16. Now, consequently, such
titles as <q>prince of this world,</q> <q>prince of the
power of the air,</q> <q>god of this world,</q> etc., are
applied to him, because he has by fraud usurped that
place. John 14:30; Eph. 2:2; 2 Cor. 4:4. He,
of course, employs <q>his angels</q> to co-operate with
him in his nefarious work.
</p>

<p>
Thus clearly do we have set before us just the
agencies,&mdash;the Devil and his angels,&mdash;which are
<pb n='069'/><anchor id='Pg069'/>
adapted, both by nature and inclination, to carry on
just such a work as is seen in Spiritualism. But
how do we know, some one may ask, but that Spiritualism
is the work of the good angels?&mdash;We know
that it is not, because good angels do not lie. They
never would come to men, professing to be the
spirits of their dead friends, and imitate and personate
them to deceive, knowing that the mediums did
not know, and could not ascertain that they were
altogether another and different order of beings.
But the evil angels, led by the father of lies, and
cradled, and drilled, and skilled, and polished, in the
school of lying, would be delighted to deceive men
in this very way, by pretending to be their dead
friends, and then by working upon their affections
and love for the ones they could skilfully personate,
bring them under their influence and lead them captive
at their will.
</p>

<p>
These evil angels are experts in deception. They
have had six thousand years' experience. They are
well acquainted with the human family. They can
read character. They study temperament. They
acquaint themselves minutely with personal history.
They know a thousand things which only they and
the individual they are trying to ensnare, are aware
of. They know many things beyond the knowledge
of men. They can easily carry the news of the
decease of a friend, and the description of a death-bed
scene, to other friends thousands of miles away,
and months before the truth through ordinary channels
can reach them, so that when it is verified, their
influence over them may be increased. (See page <ref target="Pg023">23</ref>.)
</p>

<pb n='070'/><anchor id='Pg070'/>

<p>
There is nothing that has yet taken place, of however
inexplicable a nature, and nothing which even
the imagination may anticipate, which is not, and will
not be, easily attributable to these unseen angels.
They are lying spirits; for the fundamental principle
on which they are acting is a lie; but they tell enough
truth to sway and captivate the minds of men. It
matters not how sacred the field in which they tread,
nor how hallowed the associations which they invade,
they press into every spot where it is possible, by
spinning another thread, to strengthen their web of
deception.
</p>

<p>
And in what dulcet and siren tones they woo their
victims to lay aside all resistance to their influence,
to become receptive and passive, and yield themselves
to their control; and when they have them
thus helpless in their arms, they deliberately and
cruelly instil into their minds the virus of ungovernable
lust, the leprosy of unconquerable rebellion
against the government of Heaven. That this language
does not misrepresent nor slander them, will
be shown from their own testimony, before the close
of this book.
</p>

<p>
The thought is not overlooked that many even of
those who do not profess to be Spiritualists, deny
the existence of any such being as a personal Devil,
or of personal evil angels, his agents. He is no
doubt well pleased with this, as such people can the
more easily be made the victims of his wiles. But
these same persons would no doubt acknowledge the
existence, as real beings, of God, Christ, and the
<pb n='071'/><anchor id='Pg071'/>
good angels. This fact being established, by parity
of reasoning the Devil and his angels become real
beings also. The same arguments which show that
God and Christ exist as personal beings may be used
to show that the Devil and his angels are personal
beings also. He who denies that there is a personal
Devil, must be prepared also to deny that there is a
personal Christ. So far as the argument for personal
existence is concerned, Christ and good angels stand
on one side of the equation, and the Devil and his
angels on the other; and whoever would rub out the
one, must rub out the other also.
</p>

<p>
Christ said that he <q>beheld Satan as lightning fall
from heaven.</q> Luke 10:18. John in the Revelation
(12:7) beheld a war in heaven. <q>Michael
[Christ] and his angels fought against the dragon
[Satan]; and the dragon fought, and his angels.</q>
On the ground that there is no Devil, this would be
a wonderful battle&mdash;Christ and his angels, who are
real beings, fighting furiously against myths and
nonentities which have not even the substance of a
phantom.
</p>

<p>
To endorse the doctrine of a personal Devil, is not
to endorse the grossly absurd caricatures conjured
up by morbid imaginations, and popular theology,&mdash;a
being with bat's wings, horns, hoofs, and a
dart-pointed tail. Yet upon such pictorial fables he
doubtless looks with complacency; as they are
calculated still further to destroy faith in his existence,
and enable him the better to cover his tracks
and carry on his work among men. Nevertheless
<pb n='072'/><anchor id='Pg072'/>
the only rational hypothesis on which to account for
the present condition of this world (which every one
must admit is full of devilishness), the existence of
evil, and the presence of sickness, suffering, and
death, is the account the Bible gives us of fallen
angels and fallen men. Unfallen angels are beings
of mighty power. One of them slew in one night
185,000 Assyrians (2 Kings 19:35); and the one
who appeared at the time of Christ's resurrection
had a countenance like the lightning, and raiment
white as snow, and before him the keepers of the
tomb fell like dead men. Matt. 28:3, 4. A fall
from their high estate, though it would impair their
strength and power, cannot be supposed to have
wholly deprived them of these qualities; therefore
the fallen angels still have capabilities far superior
to those of men. The only defense mankind has
against them is found in Christ, who circumscribes
their power (for they are kept in chains, 2 Peter
2:4), and makes provision by which we may resist
them. Eph. 6:11; James 4:6-8; 1 John 5:18.
The question why they are permitted to continue
finds solution in the thought that God is consistently
giving to sin time and opportunity to develop itself,
fully show its nature, and manifest its works, to all
created intelligences, so that when it shall finally be
wiped out of existence, with all its originators, aiders,
and abetters, as in God's purpose it is to be (Rev.
20:14, 15; 2 Peter 3:7, 13; Rev. 5:13), there will
ever after remain an object-lesson sufficient to safe-guard
the universe against a repetition of the evil.
<pb n='073'/><anchor id='Pg073'/>
Only some 6000 years are allotted to this work of
evil; and 6000 years are as nothing compared with
eternity.
</p>

<div>
<index index="toc"/>
<head>Warnings Against Evil Spirits.</head>

<p>
The Scriptures plainly point out the working of
these agents of wickedness, and warn us against
them. In 1 Tim. 4:1, we read: <q>Now the Spirit
speaketh expressly, that in the latter times some
shall depart from the faith, giving heed to seducing
spirits, and doctrines of devils.</q> This shows that
these spirits make it an object to seduce, or deceive,
to draw men away from the true faith, and cause
them to receive, instead, the doctrines they teach,
which are called <q>doctrines of devils;</q> and this
scripture is written to put men on their guard
against them.
</p>

<p>
Again Paul says: <q>For we wrestle not against
flesh and blood, but against principalities, against
powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this
world, against spiritual wickedness [margin, <q>wicked
spirits</q>] in high places.</q> Eph. 6:12. And he
adjures his readers to put on the whole armor of
God to be able to resist them.
</p>

<p>
The apostle Peter exhorts to the same purpose:
<q>Be sober, be vigilant; because your adversary
the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about, seeking
whom he may devour: whom resist steadfast in
the faith.</q> 1 Peter 5:8, 9. If our ears do not
deceive us, a good deal of this roaring is heard in
the ranks of Spiritualists, where, by invisible rapping,
agitated furniture, clairvoyance, clairaudience,
<pb n='074'/><anchor id='Pg074'/>
writing, speaking, marvels, and wonders, he seeks
to set the world on tiptoe of curiosity and expectation,
and bewilder men into a departure from the
faith and the acceptance of the doctrines of devils.
He is cunning enough not to <q>roar</q> in a way to
frighten and repel, but only to attract attention, and
lead multitudes, through an overweening curiosity
and wonder at the marvels, to come thoughtlessly
within the sphere of his influence.
</p>

<p>
The prophet Isaiah also has something to say
directly upon this subject: <q>And when they shall
say unto you, Seek unto them that have familiar
spirits, and unto wizards that peep, and that mutter:
should not a people seek unto their God? for the
living to the dead?</q> Isa. 8:19. That is, is it
consistent for living people to go to dead ones for
their knowledge? The following verse shows where
we should go for light and truth: <q>To the law and
to the testimony: if they speak not according to
this word, it is because there is no light in them.</q>
The time has certainly come when many are saying
just what the text points out, and seeking to the
dead, to familiar spirits, and wizards, for knowledge.
Those practices which in the Bible are
enumerated as <q>charming,</q> <q>enchantment,</q> <q>sorcery,</q>
<q>witchcraft,</q> <q>necromancy,</q> <q>divination,</q>
<q>consulting with familiar spirits,</q> etc., are more or
less related, and are all really from one source. So
in modern times different names indicate substantially
the same thing. Thus Mr. Hudson, in
<q>Psychic Phenomena,</q> p. v, says:&mdash;
</p>

<pb n='075'/><anchor id='Pg075'/>

<quote rend="display">
<q>It has, however, long been felt by the ablest thinkers of
our time that all psychic manifestations of the human intellect,
normal or abnormal, whether designated by the name
of mesmerism, hypnotism, somnambulism, trance, spiritism,
demonology, miracle, mental therapeutics, genius, or insanity,
are in some way related.</q>
</quote>

<p>
Seven, at least, of the foregoing names are no
doubt in the warp and woof of Spiritualism; and
he might have added mind-reading and Christian
Science. And Spiritualists admit that their work is
the same as that described by the Bible terms above
quoted. Thus, Allen Putnam, a Spiritualistic writer,
says:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q>The doctrine that the oracles, soothsaying, and witchcraft
of past ages were kindred to these manifestations of our
day, I, for one, most fully believe.</q>
</quote>

<p>
In a pamphlet by the same author, entitled,
<q>Mesmerism, Spiritualism, Witchcraft, and Miracle,</q>
p. 6, he says:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q>As seen by me now, Mesmerism, Spiritualism, Witchcraft,
Miracles, all belong to one family, all have a common
root, and are developed by the same laws.</q>
</quote>

<p>
To all these, therefore, the text under notice
(Isa. 8:19, 20) applies. We are to bring them to
the standard of <q>the law and the testimony,</q> and
<q>if they speak not according to this word ...
there is no light in them.</q> The living should not
seek to the dead.
</p>

<p>
In Rev. 16:13, 14, the same spirits are again
brought to view, and called <q>unclean spirits,</q> and
<q>spirits of devils.</q> Their last work of deception
is to go forth to the kings of the earth, and of the
<pb n='076'/><anchor id='Pg076'/>
whole world, to gather them to the battle of the
great day of God Almighty. Thus all that is revealed
of them from beginning to end (and scriptures
might be multiplied on the point) furnishes
the most cogent reason why all should be keenly
awake to their existence and their work, and be ever
watchful against their influence and approach.
</p>

</div>

</div>

<pb n='077'/><anchor id='Pg077'/>

<div rend="page-break-before: always">
<index index="toc" level1="Chapter Five. What The Spirits Teach."/>
<index index="pdf" level1="Chapter Five."/>
<head type="sub">Chapter Five.</head>
<head>What The Spirits Teach.</head>

<p>
It has been shown in the preceding chapters that
the unseen <q>controls</q> (the beings who control
the mediums) in Spiritualism, are not the spirits of
the dead, but are fallen angels or spirits of devils.
This fact will be confirmed by a brief glance at some
of their teachings; for we are to remember that if
they speak not according to the law and the testimony
there is no light in them. It matters not that
what they teach may be supported by signs and
wonders beyond the comprehension of the human
mind. That is no guarantee of truth; for such phenomena
are to be wrought, as will soon be shown,
to prove a lie. The Lord anciently put his people
on their guard in this respect. Deut. 13:1-3, 5:
<q>If there arise among you a prophet, or a dreamer
of dreams, and giveth thee a sign or a wonder, and
the sign or the wonder come to pass, whereof he
spake unto thee, saying, Let us go after other gods,
which thou hast not known, and let us serve them;
thou shalt not hearken unto the words of that
prophet, or that dreamer of dreams: for the Lord
your God proveth you, to know whether ye love
the Lord your God with all your heart and with all
your soul.</q> <q>And that prophet, or that dreamer of
<pb n='078'/><anchor id='Pg078'/>
dreams, shall be put to death; because he hath spoken
to turn you away from the Lord your God, ... out
of the way which the Lord thy God commanded thee
to walk in.</q>
</p>

<p>
Thus the fact that one who professed to be a
prophet could perform a sign or wonder, showing
his connection with some unseen power, was not
enough to shield him from condemnation and punishment,
if what he undertook to prove by that sign
or wonder was contrary to the truth, and tended to
lead away from God. The teaching of any system
is an important part of the fruit it bears; and by
that, according to our Lord's own rule, we are to
judge it, and not by any power or mighty works
connected with it, however wonderful they may be.
</p>

<lg>
<l><q rend="pre">'Tis not the broad phylactery</q></l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Nor stubborn fasts, nor stated prayers</l>
<l>That make us saints. We judge the tree</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'><q rend="post">By what it bears.</q></l>
<l></l>
<l>&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>Alice Carey.</hi></l>
</lg>

<p>
It is therefore pertinent to look sufficiently at
the teachings of the spirits to ascertain their character.
Here we shall find some most damaging
testimony; for&mdash;
</p>

<p>
1. <hi rend='italic'>They Deny God.</hi>&mdash;It is no pleasure to transcribe
the utterances of practical atheism; yet enough
should be given to show what they teach on the great
fundamental principles of Christianity. At a séance,
reported in the <hi rend='italic'>Banner of Light</hi>, July 11, 1868, the
following questions were addressed to the spirits,
and the accompanying answers received:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre"><hi rend='italic'>Ques.</hi>&mdash;It is said in the Bible that man is
made in the image of God. Please tell us what that image is.</q>
</quote>

<pb n='079'/><anchor id='Pg079'/>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre"><hi rend='italic'>Ans.</hi>&mdash;He is made in the image of everything
that ever was, that is, or that ever shall be. He holds within his
caliber everything that exists, that ever has existed, or that
ever will exist. Now, God is included in this. If he exists at
all, he exists everywhere (and we have taken in everything),
every place, every name, every condition. I believe that the
human stands above all things else, and holds within its
embrace all the past, present, and future. In this sense he
is created and exists in the image of God.</q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre"><hi rend='italic'>Q.</hi>&mdash;What is God essentially?</q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q><hi rend='italic'>A.</hi>&mdash;Everything. Essentially you are God, and I am
God&mdash;the flowers, the grass, the pebbles, the stars, the moon,
the sun, everything is God.</q>
</quote>

<p>
The Devil, through the serpent in the garden,
taught Adam and Eve that the soul is immortal,
and has transfused the same idea very successfully
through paganism, Romanism, and Protestantism;
but he also said, <q>Ye shall be as gods;</q> and now,
it seems, he is trying to make the world swallow this
other leg of his falsehood; but by putting it forth
under the form of the old pagan pantheism, that
everything is God, and God is everything, he betrays
the lie he uttered in Eden; for in that case, Adam
and Eve were no more gods after they ate than they
were before.
</p>

<p>
Another séance, reported in the <hi rend='italic'>Banner</hi> about
twenty years later than the one quoted above, April
28, 1888; an inquirer addressed to the <q>spirits</q> a
question about God, and received answer, a portion
of which is presented below:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre"><hi rend='italic'>Ques.</hi>&mdash;Some Spiritualists, I learn, believe in
a God; otherwise they would not pray to him&mdash;taking for granted
that there is such a being. Please enlighten us.</q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q><hi rend='italic'>Ans.</hi>&mdash;We have yet to come in contact with a thorough
Spiritualist, one who understands something of spiritual life
and the revelations made by returning spirits, who directly
<pb n='080'/><anchor id='Pg080'/>
believes in a personal God. True, many Spiritualists and
many returning spirits offer their invocations to the <q>Great
Supreme Spirit of all life and intelligence,</q> not because they
expect to change the order of law, or to come into direct
communication with, or nearness to, a Great Supreme Being,
clothed in the image of man, but because they desire to enter
an atmosphere of harmony, to uplift their own souls to a
plane of thought which will bring spiritual inspiration to
their minds. We make a distinction between that Great
Supreme Overruling Force which we may call the Superior
Spirit of Intelligence, Wisdom, and Love, and the personal
Deity, clothed in the image of man, gigantic in stature,
jealous and revengeful by nature, which has been set up and
worshiped as the Christian Jehovah. We know of no Spiritualist&mdash;let
us repeat it&mdash;who believes in such a personal
God; but we can believe and accept the idea, though it may
pass beyond almost our finite comprehension, that there is a
grand universal Spirit permeating all forms of existence;
that this great source of light, of activity and vitality
vibrates with intelligence, and that it is superior to all
organic forms, however grand they may prove to be.</q>
</quote>

<p>
The same views have been taught all along by
the <q>spirits</q> of Spiritualism, as could be shown by
extracts dating as far back as 1858, only ten years
after the <q>Rochester Knockings.</q> And though
Spiritualism is now assuming more of the sedate
speech of organized Christianity, the spirits do
not modify their teaching in respect to God. In
<q>Automatic, or Spirit, Writing,</q> p. 148 (1896), are
given many messages from the spirits through the
mediumship of Mrs. S. A. Underwood, wife of the
editor of the <hi rend='italic'>Philosophical Journal</hi>, Chicago. The
<q>spirits</q> set forth their teaching in answer to questions
by the medium, some of which have reference
to God, though his name is not used. Thus on page
148, this conversation is given:&mdash;
</p>

<pb n='081'/><anchor id='Pg081'/>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre"><hi rend='italic'>Ques.</hi>&mdash;You often in these communications speak
of the binding laws of spiritual life&mdash;that because of them you
cannot give us such and such information, etc. Now who
makes those laws, and whence came they, and how are they
taught?</q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre"><hi rend='italic'>Ans.</hi>&mdash;Thou say'st <q>who</q>&mdash;therefore
we cannot answer. Go back to the first question and ask one at a time.</q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre"><hi rend='italic'>Q.</hi>&mdash;Well, who makes the laws?</q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre"><hi rend='italic'>A.</hi>&mdash;Spirits are not bondaged by
<emph>persons</emph>.</q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre"><hi rend='italic'>Q.</hi>&mdash;Then how do you come to know those
laws?</q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre"><hi rend='italic'>A.</hi>&mdash;Pharos will now answer. Spiritual laws are
spiritually perceived, as soon as the physical perceptions are got
rid of.</q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre"><hi rend='italic'>Q.</hi>&mdash;Could you explain to us those laws?</q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q><hi rend='italic'>A.</hi>&mdash;Courses of teaching from our side are as necessary
for you to understand even the rudimentary laws of Being,
as courses in your colleges; and guessed-at spirit knowledge
from your bounded view must always fail in accurate
wording.</q>
</quote>

<p>
It will be perceived that the answers to these
questions are, from the beginning, evasive; but the
real idea entertained clearly shines through the thin
veil drawn over to conceal it. The questions pertain
to the source, or authorship, of the <q>laws of
spiritual life;</q> and this would generally be understood
to be God. But on a technicality the spirits
refuse to answer. The question is made plainer,
and the answer is that <q>spirits are not bondaged
by <emph>persons</emph>;</q> that is to say that spirits have nothing
to do with personalities, and that no personal
being has anything to do with those laws. There is
therefore no God who formulates and promulgates
them. No wonder the question followed, how they
came to know these laws; and it was a very convenient
answer that we will know when we get there
<pb n='082'/><anchor id='Pg082'/>
and have lost all physical perceptions. A desire for
some explanation of those laws is met with the not
very satisfactory information that they (the spirits)
would have to give those in our sphere a course of
teaching, like a college course, before we could understand
even the rudimentary laws of Being. The
only thing clear in all this is that there is no God;
at least no personal God such as the Bible reveals.
To the <q>grand whole,</q> whatever that may be, they
give the name of the <q>All of Being.</q> In answer to a
question concerning <q>personalities,</q> they are called
<q>atoms emanating from the same source&mdash;parts
of the great All of Being, partaking of the general
characteristics of the grand whole.</q>&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>Page 149.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Reader, how does all this compare in your own
mind with the God of the Bible, the Creator of all
things, the loving Father of us all, who has for his
creatures more tender regard and pity than a father
can feel for his own children, whose very name and
nature is Love, and who has purposed infinite good
for all men, and will carry it out unless they, as free
moral agents, by their own sin, prevent his doing for
them what he desires to do? The Bible is not responsible
for the aspersions cast upon God by a
false theology, which misrepresent his character and
give occasion for the charges of vindictiveness and
vengeance and awful tyranny, so freely made by
fallen angels and wicked men. They do not belong
to him who is the source of all goodness and mercy;
and we would labor to bring those who have perverted
views of God back to a right conception of
<pb n='083'/><anchor id='Pg083'/>
the great Friend of sinners, as he has revealed himself
in his holy word.
</p>

<p>
2. <hi rend='italic'>They Deny Jesus Christ.</hi>&mdash;Christ is revealed
as the divine Son of the Father; and to deny that he
was or is any more than any other man is surely to
deny him; and the scripture says that <q>whosoever
denieth the Son, the same hath not the Father.</q>
1 John 2:23. The following is what the <q>spirits</q>
began to teach in the earliest stages of Spiritualism
concerning Christ:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q>What is the meaning of the word Christ?&mdash;'Tis not, as
generally supposed, the Son of the Creator of all things. Any
just and perfect being is Christ. The crucifixion of Christ is
nothing more than the crucifixion of the spirit, which all
have to contend with before becoming perfect and righteous.
The miraculous conception of Christ is merely a fabulous
tale.</q>&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>Spiritual Telegraph, No. 37.</hi>
</quote>

<p>
How fully does this declaration that any good
man is Christ open the way for the fulfilment of the
Saviour's prophecy that in the last days many
false Christs and false prophets shall arise, and shall
deceive many. See Matt. 24:24. A prospectus
of the <hi rend='italic'>Truth Seeker</hi> contained these words: <q>It
shall be the organ through which the christs of the
last dispensation will choose to speak.</q>
</p>

<p>
A little later, July 19, 1862, there was published
in the <hi rend='italic'>Banner of Light</hi> a lecture on Spiritualism by
Mrs. C. L. V. Hatch, in which she spoke of Christ
as follows:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q>Of Jesus of Nazareth, personally, we have but little to
say. Certain it is, we find sufficient that is divine in his life
and teachings, without professing to believe in the fables of
<pb n='084'/><anchor id='Pg084'/>
theologians respecting his birth and parentage. We are content
to take the simple record as it stands, and to regard him
as the son of Joseph and Mary, endowed with such purity and
harmony of character as fitted him to be the Apostle and
Revelator of the highest wisdom ever taught to man. It is
the fundamental article in the creed of modern Christianity,
that Jesus was divine in his nature, and of miraculous origin
and nativity. Now, no human being of ordinary intelligence,
unwarped by educational bias, would ever profess to believe in
such a monstrous figment, which only shows the blindness of
superstitious prejudice.</q>
</quote>

<p>
Here is something twenty-four years later. A
séance reported in the <hi rend='italic'>Banner of Light</hi>, Oct. 9,
1886, gives the following questions and answer:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre"><hi rend='italic'>Ques.</hi>&mdash;Do <q>spirits</q>
generally believe in the divinity of
Jesus Christ; that he was the Son of God; that he was crucified,
dead, and buried, and rose again the third day for the
saving of all who should believe in him?</q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q><hi rend='italic'>Ans.</hi>&mdash;No; spirits generally&mdash;advanced spirits, those
who are intelligent, having studied deeply into the principles
of life&mdash;do not accept the theory of the divinity of Jesus
Christ; they do not believe that he was crucified for mankind,
in the accepted understanding of that term.</q>
</quote>

<p>
Some years ago a class was formed in New York
City for the purpose of investigating what is called
the spiritual philosophy. Before that class, Dr.
Weisse said:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q>Friend Orton seems to make rather light of the communications
from spirits concerning Christ. It seems, nevertheless,
that all the testimony received from advanced spirits
only shows that Christ was a medium and reformer in Judea;
that he now is an advanced spirit in the sixth sphere; but
that he never claimed to be God, and does not at present. I
have had two communications to that effect. I have also
read some that Dr. Hare had. If I am wrong in my views of
the Bible, I should like to know it, for the spirits and mediums
<emph>do not contradict me</emph>.</q>
</quote>

<pb n='085'/><anchor id='Pg085'/>

<p>
The peculiar insult here purposely offered to the
Saviour will be appreciated when it is noted that at
about the same time the spirits located Thomas Paine,
the well-known skeptic, in the seventh sphere, one
sphere above that of Christ. He must therefore
have progressed very rapidly, seeing he so quickly
surpassed Christ, who had over 1700 years the start
of him.
</p>

<p>
Before the same class Dr. Hare is reported to
have spoken as follows, which we give without
assuming any responsibility for the spiritual grammar
therein exhibited:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q>He said that he had been thus protected from deception
by the spirits of Washington and Franklin, and that they
had brought Jesus Christ to him, with whom he had also
communicated. He had first repelled him as an impostor;
but became convinced afterward that it was really him. He
related that he had learned from that high and holy spirit,
that he was not the character that Christendom had represented
him to be, and not responsible for the errors connected
with his name, but that he was, while on earth, a medium of
high and extraordinary powers, and that it was solely through
his mediumistic capabilities that he attained so great knowledge,
and was enabled to practice such apparent wonders.</q>
</quote>

<p>
When Christ was upon earth, it was envy, jealousy,
and malice that moved the Pharisees against
him (Matt 27:18); and it seems that he is followed
by the same feelings in the spirit world. This is
natural; for he who fired the hearts of the Pharisees
with their malignant spirit, is the same one, as we
have seen, who is working through the powers of
darkness in the unseen world to-day. Any way to
degrade Christ in the minds of men to a level with,
<pb n='086'/><anchor id='Pg086'/>
or below, the mediums of our time, and make it
appear that they can do as great wonders as he,
seems to be the object in view.
</p>

<p>
There is plainly manifest an irrepressible desire
on the part of spirits and mediums to show Christ
to be inferior to the leaders of other great religions
of the world, as Buddha, Confucius, Zoroaster, etc.
Thus, at a seance held in 1864 (<hi rend='italic'>Banner of Light</hi>,
June 4), the spirits were questioned as follows:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre"><hi rend='italic'>Ques.</hi>&mdash;Have you ever seen Confucius or
Zoroaster?</q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre"><hi rend='italic'>Ans.</hi>&mdash;Yes, many times.</q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre"><hi rend='italic'>Q.</hi>&mdash;In the order of degree, which stands the
higher in moral excellence&mdash;Jesus Christ, Confucius, or Zoroaster?</q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q><hi rend='italic'>A.</hi>&mdash;Confucius stands in morality higher than the other
two.... Jesus himself claims to have been inspired to a
large extent, by this same Confucius. And if we are to place
reliance upon the records concerning each individual, we
shall find that Jesus spoke the truth when he tells us that he
was inspired by Confucius.</q>
</quote>

<p>
Indeed! Where are the records referred to?
Where and when did Jesus <q>speak</q> the words
attributed to him? And where does he tell <emph>us</emph>, that
he was inspired by Confucius? So we are to believe,
are we, that the gospel of Jesus Christ, is only a
rehash of what was originally wrought out in the
brain of Confucius, and not words fresh from the
fountain of light given him by his Father in heaven,
to speak, as he claimed them to be? Yet he was a
high and <emph>holy</emph> medium. We wonder what standard
of holiness and perfection the spirits can have.
</p>

<p>
But still later, in 1896, we find the spirits putting
forth the same teaching in reference to Jesus Christ.
In <q>Automatic, or Spirit Writing,</q> pp. 148, 149,
we have this:&mdash;
</p>

<pb n='087'/><anchor id='Pg087'/>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre"><hi rend='italic'>Ques.</hi>&mdash;Do you accept Jesus as the model of
spiritual knowledge?</q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre"><hi rend='italic'>Ans.</hi>&mdash;Shall you give us a better example?</q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre"><hi rend='italic'>Q.</hi>&mdash;Well, we are willing to accept him as one
of many, but not as chief.</q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre"><hi rend='italic'>A.</hi>&mdash;Change the name. Call him by other
names&mdash;Buddha, Krishna, or Mohammed, the spirit is one&mdash;is ever
and ever the same. Spirit is one, not many, however often
the name is changed.</q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre"><hi rend='italic'>Q.</hi>&mdash;Were not Jesus, Buddha, and Mohammed
distinct personalities?</q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre"><hi rend='italic'>A.</hi>&mdash;No more than all atoms emanating from the
same source&mdash;parts of the great All of Being, partaking of the
general characteristics of the grand whole&mdash;but yielding to
environments, showed marked individualism, such as the
force of the times in which they appeared would create in
their characters.</q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre"><hi rend='italic'>Q.</hi>&mdash;Are these leaders of religious thought not
distinct individualities now?</q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q><hi rend='italic'>A.</hi>&mdash;No, not on spiritual planes, which do not recognize
any now.</q>
</quote>

<p>
Thus they persist in denying that Jesus holds any
pre-eminent position as a religious teacher. He may
as well be called Buddha, Krishna, or Mohammed
as Jesus. They are all the same spirit, all atoms of
the great <q>All of Being,</q> all as much alike as three
drops of water from the same ocean, and what is
more bewildering still, they have now all lost their
individuality in the spirit world. How, then, can it
be told that Christ is in the sixth sphere, and Paine
in the seventh? Such teachers, though they may
claim to be good spirits, are branded as antichrist by
both John and Jude. John says: <q>Who is a liar but
he that denieth that Jesus is the Christ? He is antichrist
that denieth the Father and the Son.</q> 1 John
2:22. Again, <q>Every spirit that confesseth not
that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh is not of
<pb n='088'/><anchor id='Pg088'/>
God.</q> 1 John 4:3. According to the spirits,
Jesus Christ has no more come in the flesh than
have Buddha, Mohammed, Confucius, Zoroaster, or
any other religious teacher. They all simply yielded
to their environments, and showed marked individualism
while on this earth, and have now become
absorbed in the <q>great whole</q> in the spirit world.
Thus, as Jude says (verse 4), they deny <q>the only
Lord God, and our Lord Jesus Christ.</q>
</p>

<p>
So much for their denial of Christ in his person.
They also deny him in his offices; for to deny and
ridicule what he came to do, is one of the most
effectual ways of denying him. The great work of
Christ was the shedding of his blood to atone for the
sins of the world; and the spirits are particularly
bitter in denouncing that idea. If such sentiments
were uttered only by open and professed scoffers, it
would not do so much harm; but it is not unusual
to find those bearing the title of <q>Reverend</q> descanting
on these themes in a manner to show themselves
antichrist, according to the definition of that
term by John. And even this need not surprise us;
for the sure word of prophecy has foretold that some
who have once held the true faith will depart therefrom
to give heed to seducing spirits, and doctrines
of devils. 1 Tim. 4:1.
</p>

<p>
One R. P. Wilson, to whose name is attached the
ministerial title, in his lectures on <q>Spiritual
Science,</q> said:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q>Although as a believer in true spiritual philosophy, we
cannot receive the orthodox views of salvation, yet we recognize
<pb n='089'/><anchor id='Pg089'/>
the birth of a Saviour and Redeemer into the universal
hearts of humanity, <emph>wherein truly the deity is incarnate</emph>, dwelling
in the interior of man's spirit. We believe that each
soul of man is born with his or her Saviour within them; for
as man is an embodiment of the universe in epitome, he contains
in his central nature an incarnation of deity. The
germ of immortal unfoldings resides within the spirit of it,
which needs only appropriate conditions to call forth the expanding
and elevating powers of the soul.</q>
</quote>

<p>
In <q>Spiritual Science Demonstrated,</q> p. 229,
Dr. Hare said:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q>Since my spirit sister's translation to the spheres, she
has risen from the fifth to the sixth sphere. It has been
alleged by her that her ascent was retarded by her belief in
the atonement.</q>
</quote>

<p>
A <q>spirit</q> calling himself Deacon John Norton,
as reported in the <hi rend='italic'>Banner of Light</hi>, said:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q>I used to believe in the atonement; I honestly believed
that Christ died to save the world, and that by and through
his death all must be saved if saved at all. Now I see that
this is folly&mdash;it cannot be so. The light through Christ, the
Holy One, shone in darkness; the darkness could not comprehend
it; and thus it crucified the body, and Christ died a
martyr. He was not called in that way, that by the shedding
of his blood, the vast multitude coming after him
should find salvation. Everything in nature proves this
false. They tell me here that Christ was the most perfect
man of his time. I am told here also that he is worthy to be
worshiped, because of his goodness; and where man finds
goodness he may worship. God's face is seen in the violet,
and man may well worship this tiny flower.</q>
</quote>

<p>
In the pantheism of Spiritualism, every object in
nature, the tiny flower, the pebbles, the trees, the
birds and bees, are worthy to be worshiped as much
as Christ. In one breath the spirits extol him as a
most perfect man, pre-eminent in goodness and
<pb n='090'/><anchor id='Pg090'/>
worthy to be worshiped, and in the next, place him
in a position which would make him the greatest
fraud and impostor that ever lived. Such inconsistencies
show that Christ is a miracle which evil
men and evil angels know not how to dispose of.
</p>

<p>
As they deny Christ, they must, logically, deny
the doctrine of his second coming. This doctrine is
made of especial importance and prominence in the
New Testament. The nature of that coming, its
manner, and the circumstances attending it are so
fully described, that no one who adopts the Bible
view can possibly be deceived by false christs.
But the church and the world have been turned
away from the true doctrine of the second advent,
and the way is thus prepared for the great deceptions
of the last days. Spiritualism is one of these, and
claims that it is itself that second coming. Joel
Tiffany, a former celebrated teacher of Spiritualism,
has said:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q>I must look for the coming of my Lord in my own
affection. He must come in the clouds of my spiritual
heavens, or he cannot come for any benefit to me.</q>
</quote>

<p>
And through Mrs. Conant, a famous medium of
the early days of Spiritualism, the controlling spirit
said:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q>This second coming of Christ means simply the second
coming of truths that are not themselves new, that have
always existed.... He said, <q>When I come again, I shall
not be known to you.</q> Spiritualism is that second coming of
Christ.</q>&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>Banner of Light, Nov. 18, 1865.</hi>
</quote>

<p>
But the Bible description of this event is, the
revelation of the Lord himself in the clouds of
<pb n='091'/><anchor id='Pg091'/>
heaven in the glory of the Father, the reverberating
shout of triumph, the voice of the archangel, the
trump of God, the flash of his presence like that of
the lightning, the wailing of the tribes of the earth,
as they thus behold him, while unprepared to meet
him, and the resurrection of the righteous dead.
And where and when have these inseparable accompaniments
of that event been seen? They do not
occur when a person is converted from sin, nor do
they occur in the dying chamber, nor have they
occurred in Spiritualism; and until they do take
place, the second coming of Christ is not accomplished.
</p>

<p>
Many seek to dispose of such testimony as this,
by making it all figurative, or meeting it with a bold
denial, as in the case of the resurrection of the body.
And the way has been too well prepared for this
condition of things, by much of the teaching of
popular orthodoxy, which turns the early records of
the Bible into childish allegory, perverts the true
doctrine of the coming and kingdom of Christ, and
denies the resurrection of the dead, by destroying
its necessity through the immortality of the soul.
On the vital point of the resurrection, Dr. Clarke
makes this noteworthy remark:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q>One remark I cannot help making,&mdash;The doctrine of the
resurrection appears to have been thought of much more
consequence among the primitive Christians than it is <emph>now</emph>!
How is this?&mdash;The apostles were continually insisting on it,
and exciting the followers of God to diligence, obedience, and
cheerfulness through it. And their successors in the present
day seldom mention it! So the apostles preached, and so the
primitive Christians believed; so we preach and so our hearers
<pb n='092'/><anchor id='Pg092'/>
believe. There is not a doctrine in the gospel on which more
stress is laid; and there is not a doctrine in the present system
of preaching which is treated with more neglect.</q>&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>On
1 Corinthians
15</hi> (<hi rend='italic'>original edition</hi>).<note place='foot'>The revision
of Dr. Clarke's Commentary by Dr. Curry, proves
the truthfulness of what the doctor here says, for this important
passage is entirely eliminated, and its place filled with statements
which Dr. Clarke did not make, and sentiments which he did not
believe. It is no less than a crime to treat a dead man's work in this
manner.</note>
</quote>

<p>
In view of the way the Bible has been treated by
its professed friends, it is no wonder that infidelity
prevails, and Spiritualism prospers.
</p>

<p>
3. <hi rend='italic'>They Deny the Bible.</hi>&mdash;The denial of God
and Christ, as set forth above is, of course, a denial
of the Bible; and not much need therefore be added
on this point. We quote only a few representative
utterances. Doctor Hare (<q>Spiritual Science Demonstrated,</q>
p. 209) says:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q>The Old Testament does not impart a knowledge of
immortality, without which religion were worthless. The
notions derived from the gospels are vague, disgusting, inaccurate,
and difficult to believe.</q>
</quote>

<p>
As to the Old Testament, it would seem doubtful
whether Mr. Hare ever read far enough to find (1) Job
exclaiming: <q>For I know that my Redeemer liveth,
and that he shall stand at the latter day upon the earth:
and though after my skin worms destroy this body,
yet in my flesh shall I see God: whom I shall see for
myself, and mine eyes shall behold, and not another;
though my reins be consumed within me</q> (or, as
the margin reads: <q>My reins within me are consumed
with earnest desire [for that day];</q>) or
(2) David: <q>I shall be satisfied, when I awake, with
<pb n='093'/><anchor id='Pg093'/>
thy likeness;</q> or (3) Isaiah: <q>Thy dead men shall
live, together with my dead body shall they arise.
Awake and sing, ye that dwell in the dust;</q> or
(4) Ezekiel: <q>Behold, O my people, I will open
your graves, and cause you to come up out of your
graves;</q> or (5) Daniel: <q>Many of them that sleep
in the dust of the earth shall awake, some to everlasting
life, and some to shame and everlasting contempt;</q>
and (6) Hosea: <q>I will ransom them from
the power of the grave, I will redeem them from
death.</q> Job 19:25-27; Ps. 17:15; Isa. 26:19;
Eze. 37:12; Dan. 12:2; Hosea 13:14. And as
for the New Testament, it is no doubt <q>disgusting</q>
to many Spiritualists to read that <q>the fearful, and
unbelieving, and the abominable, and murderers,
and whoremongers, and sorcerers, and idolaters, and
all liars, shall have their part in the lake which
burneth with fire and brimstone: which is the second
death;</q> and that without the city <q>are dogs, and
sorcerers, and whoremongers, and murderers, and
idolaters, and whosoever loveth and maketh a lie.</q>
Rev. 21:8; 22:15.
</p>

<p>
Communications from spirits are offered in place
of the Bible as a better source of instruction, the
Bible being denounced, as above quoted, as <q>vague,
inaccurate, and difficult to believe.</q> A brief comparison
of the two will furnish pertinent evidence on
this point. Take, on the Bible side, for example,
a portion of the record of creation (Gen. 1:1-5):&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q>In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth.
And the earth was without form, and void; and darkness was
<pb n='094'/><anchor id='Pg094'/>
upon the face of the deep. And the Spirit of God moved
upon the face of the waters. And God said, Let there be
light: and there was light. And God saw the light, that it
was good: and God divided the light from the darkness.
And God called the light Day, and the darkness he called
Night. And the evening and the morning were the first day.</q>
</quote>

<p>
The facts stated in this record, the profoundest
minds can never comprehend; the language in which
they are expressed, a little child can understand.
The statements are plain and simple, a perfect model
of perspicuous narrative. Place by the side of this
an account of the same event, as given us from the
<q>spheres.</q> The spirits have undertaken to produce
a new Bible, beginning, like the old, with the
creation; and this is the way it starts out, through
the mediumship of <q>Rev.</q> T. L. Harris:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre">1. In the beginning God, the Life in God, the Lord in
God, the Holy Procedure, inhabited the dome, which, burning
in magnificence primeval, and revolving in prismatic and
undulatory spiral, appeared, and was the pavilion of the
Spirit: In glory inexhaustible and inconceivable, in movement
spherical, unfolded in harmonious procedure disclosive.</q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q>2. And God said, Let good be manifest! and good unfolded
and moral-mental germs, ovariums of heavens, descended from
the Procedure. And the dome of disclosive magnificence
was heaven, and the expanded glory beneath was the germ
of creation. And the divine Procedure inbreathed upon the
disclosure, and the disclosure became the universe.</q>
</quote>

<p>
We will inflict no more of this <q>undulatory
spiral</q> nonsense on the reader. He now has both
records before him, and can judge for himself which
is the more worthy of his regard. There have been
Spiritualists who, writing in their normal state, and
not yet fully divorced from the influence of their
<pb n='095'/><anchor id='Pg095'/>
former education, have acknowledged the authenticity
of the Bible, and the doctrines of Jesus as
recorded in the gospels. But these, it is claimed,
are to be understood according to a spiritual meaning
which underlies the letter; and this spiritual
meaning generally turns out to be contrary to the
letter, which is a virtual denial of the record itself.
But the quotations here given (only a specimen of
the multitudes that might be presented) are given on
the authority of the <q>spirits,</q> whose teachings are
what we wish to ascertain.
</p>

<div>
<index index="toc"/>
<head>They Deny All Distinction Between Right
And Wrong.</head>

<p>
There is implanted in the hearts of men by
nature, a sense of right and a sense of wrong. Even
those who know not God, nor Christ, nor the gospel,
possess this power of discrimination. This is what
Paul, in Rom. 2:15, calls <q>the work of the law
written in their hearts, their conscience also bearing
witness, and their thoughts the meanwhile accusing
or else excusing one another.</q> That this distinction
should now be denied by a class in a civilized community,
professing to be advanced thinkers and
teachers, among whom are found the learned, the
refined, and the professedly pious, shows that we
have fallen upon strange times. To be sure, many
of them talk fluently of the beauty and perfection
of divine laws; but in the sense in which they would
have them understood, they rob them of all characteristics
of law. The first great essential of law is
<pb n='096'/><anchor id='Pg096'/>
authority; but this they take away from it; the next
is penalty for its violation; but this they deny, and
thus degrade the law to a mere piece of advice.
The <q>Healing of the Nations,</q> an authoritative
work among Spiritualists, pp. 163, 164, says:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre">Thus thy body needs no laws, having been in its creation
supplied with all that could be necessary for its government.
Thy spirit is above all laws, and above all essences
which flow therein. God created thy spirit from within his
own, and surely the Creator of law is above it; the Creator of
essences must be above all essence created. And if thou hast
what may be or might be termed laws, they are always subservient
to thy spirit. Good men need no laws, and laws will
do bad or ignorant men no good. If a man be above law, he
should never be governed by it. If he be below, what good
can dead, dry words do him?</q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q>True knowledge removeth all laws from power by placing
the spirit of man above it.</q>
</quote>

<p>
A correspondent of the <hi rend='italic'>Telegraph</hi> said of this
work, <q>The Healing of the Nations:</q>&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q>According to its teaching, no place is found in the universe
for divine wrath and vengeance. All are alike and forever
the object of God's love, pity, and tender care&mdash;the difference
between the two extremes of human character on earth,
being as a mere atom when compared with perfect wisdom.</q>
</quote>

<p>
This is a favorite comparison with them,&mdash;that
the difference between God and the best of men is
so much greater than the extremes of character
among men,&mdash;the most upright and the most wicked,&mdash;that
the latter is a mere atom, and not accounted
of in God's sight. That there is an infinite difference
between God and the best of men, is all true; for
God is infinite in all his attributes, and man is very
imperfect at the best. But to argue from this that
<pb n='097'/><anchor id='Pg097'/>
God is inferior to man, so that he cannot discern
difference in character here, even as man can plainly
discern it, seems but mad-house reasoning. What
would we think of the man who had the same regard
for the thief as for the honest man, for the murderer
as for the philanthropist? To ignore such
distinctions as even men are able to discern would
destroy the stability of all human governments;
what then would be the effect on the divine government?
God has given his law&mdash;holy, just, and
good&mdash;to men, and commanded obedience. He
has attached the penalty to disobedience: <q>The soul
that sinneth, it shall die,</q> <q>The wages of sin is
death.</q> Eze. 18:20; Rom. 6:23. And in the
judgment, the distinction God makes in character
will be plainly declared; for he will set the righteous
on his right hand, but the wicked on the left. Matt.
25:32, 33.
</p>

<p>
This view of the failure of law, and the absence
of all human accountability, naturally leads to a bold
denial of sin and the existence of crime. The
<q>Healing of the Nations,</q> p. 169, says: <q>Unto
God there is no error; all is comparatively good.</q>
The same work says that God views error as <q>undeveloped
good.</q> A. J. Davis (<q>Nature of Divine
Revelation,</q> p. 521) says: <q>Sin, indeed, in the
common acceptation of that term, does not really
exist.</q>
</p>

<p>
A discourse from J. S. Loveland, once a minister,
reported in the <hi rend='italic'>Banner of Light</hi>, contained
this paragraph:&mdash;
</p>

<pb n='098'/><anchor id='Pg098'/>

<quote rend="display">
<q>With God there is no crime; with man there is. Crime
does not displease God, but it does man. God is in the darkest
crime, as in the highest possible holiness. He is equally
pleased in either case. Both harmonize equally with his
attributes&mdash;they are only different sides of the same Deity.</q>
</quote>

<p>
In <q>Automatic Writing</q> (1896), p. 139, a question
was asked concerning evil, meaning sin and
crimes among men. The spirit answered that these
were conditions of progress, and were so necessary
to elevation that they were to be welcomed, not
hated. The questions and answers are as follows:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre"><hi rend='italic'>Ques.</hi>&mdash;Can you give us any information in
regard to the so-called Devil&mdash;once so firmly believed in?</q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre"><hi rend='italic'>Ans.</hi>&mdash;Devil is a word used to conjure
with.</q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre"><hi rend='italic'>Q.</hi>&mdash;Well, then, as the word itself doubtless
arose from the word <q>evil,</q> which means to us unhappiness, can you
give us an explanation of the existence of evil?</q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre"><hi rend='italic'>A.</hi>&mdash;Evil&mdash;as you who are the greatest
sufferers from it, name one of the conditions of progress&mdash;is as necessary,
aye, more so, than what you call good, to your and our elevation
to higher spheres. It is not to be hated, but welcomed.
It is the winnowing of the grain from the chaff. Children of
truth, don't worry over what to you seems evil; soon you will
be of us and will understand, and be rejoiced that what you
call evil persists and works as leaven in the great work of
mind versus matter.</q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre"><hi rend='italic'>Q.</hi>&mdash;But it seems to us impossible that brutal
crimes like murder, assassinations, or great catastrophes, by which
the innocent are made to suffer at the hands of malicious and
cruel persons, should work for ultimate good?</q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre"><hi rend='italic'>A.</hi>&mdash;Percipients of the grand whole of Being
can understand but may not state to those on your plane, the underlying
good making itself asserted even through such dreadful
manifestations of human imperfections as the crimes you
name.</q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre">When asked why certain wrongs were allowed to be
perpetuated, this answer was given:&mdash;</q>
</quote>

<pb n='099'/><anchor id='Pg099'/>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre">There is a law of psychical essence which makes necessary
all these ephemeral entanglements which to you seem
so severe, and you will yet see from your own standpoint of
reason why such hardships must be endured by questioning
souls on the highway of progress.</q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre"><hi rend='italic'>Q.</hi>&mdash;But do you from your vantage ground of
larger knowledge grow careless that such injustice is done?</q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre"><hi rend='italic'>A.</hi>&mdash;We do care, but cannot remedy.</q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre"><hi rend='italic'>Q.</hi>&mdash;Why can't you remedy?</q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre"><hi rend='italic'>A.</hi>&mdash;Because humanity is but an embryo of
existence.</q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre"><hi rend='italic'>Q.</hi>&mdash;If you can perceive the trials and sorrows
of mortals, and can interfere to save them, why do you not more
often do so?</q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q><hi rend='italic'>A.</hi>&mdash;When undeveloped souls pay the price of development,
we stand aloof, and let the play go on. Interference
will do no good.</q>
</quote>

<p>
In view of such a confession, what becomes of
the many claims put forth by other spirits that they
are ever hovering near their friends to assist and
guard them, to help and inspire them, and keep
them from evil and danger? These say that those
terrible crimes (and this would include all crimes)
are all necessary, that they are tending to develop
souls, and bring them to higher spheres, and thus
are just as laudable as good actions; so they settle
back in a gleeful mood, and <q>let the play go on;</q>
let wicked men cultivate and develop and practice
their evil propensities, and the innocent suffer. Well
may men pray to be delivered from such a spirit
assembly as that.
</p>

<p>
In <q>Healing of the Nations,</q> p. 402, Dr. Hare
says:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q>That anything should, even for an instant, be contrary
to his will, is inconsistent with his foresight and omnipotency.
<pb n='100'/><anchor id='Pg100'/>
It would be a miracle that anything counter to his
will should exist.</q>
</quote>

<p>
A lecture on the <q>Philosophy of Reform,</q> given
by A. J. Davis, in New York City, bears testimony
to the same effect:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q>In the Hebrew and Christian Scriptures, it is affirmed
that sin is the transgression of the law. But by an examination
of nature, the true and only Bible, it will be seen that
this statement is erroneous. It gives a wrong idea of both
man and law.... It will be found impossible for man to
transgress a law of God.</q>
</quote>

<p>
Thus they very illogically assume that if God
has the will or the power to prevent evil, it could not
exist, and therefore, if there is such a God, he is responsible,
forgetting that God is long-suffering, and
bears long with vessels of wrath fitted for destruction,
before they pass beyond the limits of his mercy
and perish. But Mr. Davis says further:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q>Reformers need to understand that war is as natural to
one stage of human development as peace is natural to another.
My brother has the spirit of revenge. Shall I call
him a demon? Is not his spirit natural to his condition?
War is not evil or repulsive except to a man of peace. Who
made the non-resistant? Polygamy is as natural to one stage
of development as oranges are natural to the South. Shall I
grow indignant, and because I am a monogamist, condemn
my kinsman of yore? Who made him? Who made me?
We both came up under the confluence of social and political
circumstances; and we both represent our conditions and our
teachers. The doctrine of blame and praise is natural only
to an unphilosophical condition of mind. The spirit of complaint&mdash;of
attributing <q>evil</q> to this and that plane of society&mdash;is
natural; but is natural only to undeveloped minds. It is
a profanation&mdash;a sort of atheism of which I would not be
guilty.</q>
</quote>

<pb n='101'/><anchor id='Pg101'/>

<p>
The Bible says, <q>Woe unto them that call evil
good, and good evil; that put darkness for light and
light for darkness.</q> Isa. 5:20. And it makes
another declaration which finds abundant confirmation
in the sentiments quoted above: <q>Because sentence
against an evil work is not executed speedily,
therefore the heart of the sons of men is fully set
in them to do evil.</q> Eccl. 8:11.
</p>

<p>
Having thus attempted to destroy in the minds
of men all distinction between good and evil, all
being alike in God's sight, and all equally good, they
try to make the way a little broader and easier for
men to give full rein to all the propensities and
inclinations of an evil heart, by teaching that there
is no Lawgiver and Judge before whom men must
appear to give an account of their deeds, but that
they are responsible to themselves alone, and must
give account only to their own natures. Thus Hon.
J. B. Hall, in a lecture reported in the <hi rend='italic'>Banner of
Light</hi>, Feb. 6, 1864, said:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q>I believe that man is amenable to no law not written
upon his own nature, no matter by whom given.... By his
own nature he must be tried&mdash;by his own acts he must stand
or fall. True, man must give an account to God for all his
deeds; but how?&mdash;Solely by giving account to his own nature&mdash;to
himself.</q>
</quote>

<p>
At a séance reported in the <hi rend='italic'>Banner of Light</hi>,
May 28, 1864, the following question was proposed,
and the answer was by the communicating spirit:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre"><hi rend='italic'>Ques.</hi>&mdash;To whom or to what is the soul
accountable?</q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q><hi rend='italic'>Ans.</hi>&mdash;To no Deity outside the realm of its own being,
certainly; to no God which is a creation of fancy; to no
<pb n='102'/><anchor id='Pg102'/>
Deity who dwells in a far-off heaven, and sits upon a white
throne; to no Jesus of Nazareth; to no patron saint; to no
personality; to no principle outside our own individual
selves.</q>
</quote>

<p>
The <q>Healing of the Nations,</q> p. 74, says:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q>Man is his own saviour, his own redeemer. He is his
own judge&mdash;in his own scales weighed.</q>
</quote>

<p>
A little over twenty years after the birth of
Spiritualism, Aug. 25, 1868, the Fifth National
Convention of Spiritualists was held in Corinthian
hall, Rochester, N. Y., at which a formal <q>Declaration
of Principles</q> was set forth. From the seventh
and eighth paragraphs, under principle 20, we quote
the following:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q><hi rend='italic'>Seventh</hi>, To stimulate the mind to the largest
investigation ... that we may be qualified to <emph>judge for ourselves</emph> what
is right and true. <hi rend='italic'>Eighth</hi>, To deliver from <emph>all bondage to
authority</emph>, whether vested in <emph>creed</emph>, <emph>book</emph>, or
<emph>church</emph>, except that of received truth.</q>
</quote>

<p>
This is the same principle of man's responsibility
to no one but himself, authoritatively adopted.
What a picture have we now before us! Destroy
man's belief in, and reverence for, God and Christ,
as they do; lead him to ridicule the atonement, the
only remedy for sin; make him disbelieve the Bible;
take away from his mind all distinction between right
and wrong, and assure him that he is accountable
to no one but himself; and how better could one
prepare the way to turn men into demons. All this
the spirits, by their teaching, seek to do. And can
any one fail to foresee the result? Comparatively
a small proportion of the inhabitants of this country
<pb n='103'/><anchor id='Pg103'/>
have committed themselves to these views; consequently
but little of the legitimate fruit as yet
appears; but take human nature as it is and suppose
all the inhabitants of this land to act on these principles,
and then what would we have?&mdash;A pandemonium,
a scene of anarchy, riot, bloodshed, and
all depths of rottenness and corruption&mdash;in short,
a hell so much worse than that to which the Devil
is popularly assigned, that he would at once change
his location and here take up his abode.
</p>

<p>
That this statement is none too strong, will appear
as we look a moment at some of the results
which have already developed themselves among the
friends of such views, and as their inevitable fruit.
The tendency can by no possibility be otherwise than
to atheism and all immorality. As has been already
remarked, the repulsive features were made much
more prominent in the early stages of Spiritualism
than at the present time. They are now held in the
background. The literature touching these points
has been remodeled, and an air of respectability and
religion assumed. Most of the quotations therefore
date some years back, and would be charitably withheld
were there any evidence of reform either present
or prospective. But where or when have these
principles ever been officially repudiated, and evidence
given that the consequent practices had been
abandoned? That there are many Spiritualists of
upright and moral lives, and honorable members of
society, in the best sense of that term, we gladly
believe; but is not this because they are living above
<pb n='104'/><anchor id='Pg104'/>
their principles; and due, not to the influence, but
rather to the non-influence of real Spiritualism upon
their lives? The quotations given are from those
who have been prominent among Spiritualists as
authors and speakers. If they overdraw the picture,
the responsibility is with them. Dr. B. P. Randolph,
author of a work <q>Dealings with the Dead,</q>
was eight years a medium, then renounced Spiritualism
long enough to expose its character, then
returned to it again, unable to break entirely away
from the spell it has fastened upon him. He gives
his opinion of it in the following scathing words:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre">I enter the arena as the champion of common sense,
against what in my soul I believe to be the most tremendous
enemy of God, morals, and religion, that ever found foothold
on the earth;&mdash;the most seductive, hence the most dangerous,
form of sensualism that ever cursed a nation, age, or people.
I was a medium about eight years, during which time I made
three thousand speeches, and traveled over several different
countries, proclaiming its new gospel. I now regret that so
much excellent breath was wasted, and that my health of
mind and body was well nigh ruined. I have only begun
to regain both since I totally abandoned it, and to-day had
rather see the cholera in my house, than be a spiritual
medium.</q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre">As a trance speaker, I became widely known; and now
aver that during the entire eight years of my mediumship, I
firmly and sacredly confess that I had not the control of my
own mind, as I now have, one twentieth of the time; and
before man and high heaven I most solemnly declare that I
do not now believe that during the whole eight years, I was
sane for thirty-six consecutive hours, in consequence of the
trance and the susceptibility thereto.</q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q>For seven years I held daily intercourse with what purported
to be my mother's spirit. I am now fully persuaded
that it was nothing but an evil spirit, an infernal demon,
<pb n='105'/><anchor id='Pg105'/>
who, in that guise, gained my soul's confidence, and led me
to the very brink of ruin. We read in Scripture of demoniac
possession, as well as abnormal spiritual action. Both facts
exist, provable to-day; I am positive the former does. A. J.
Davis and his clique of Harmonialists say there are no evil
spirits. I emphatically deny the statement. Five of my
friends destroyed themselves, and I attempted it, by direct
spiritual influences. Every crime in the calendar has been
committed by mortal movers of viewless beings. Adultery,
fornication, suicides, desertions, unjust divorces, prostitution,
abortion, insanity, are not evils, I suppose. I charge
all these to this scientific Spiritualism. It has also broken
up families, squandered fortunes, tempted and destroyed
the weak. It has banished peace from happy families,
separated husbands and wives, and shattered the intellect
of thousands.</q>
</quote>

<p>
The following is an extract from the writings of
J. F. Whitney, editor of the New York <hi rend='italic'>Pathfinder</hi>.
His view of the subject accords with that of Dr.
Randolph:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre">Now, after a long and constant watchfulness, seeing for
months and for years its progress and its practical workings
upon its devotees, its believers, and its mediums, we are compelled
to speak our honest conviction, which is, that the manifestations
coming through the acknowledged mediums, who
are designated as rapping, tipping, writing, and entranced
mediums, have a baneful influence upon believers, and create
discord and confusion; that the generality of these teachings
inculcate false ideas, approve of selfish individual acts, and
endorse theories and principles, which, when carried out,
debase and make men little better than the brute. These are
among the fruits of Modern Spiritualism, and we do not hesitate
to say that we believe if these manifestations are continued
to be received, and to be as little understood as they are,
and have been since they made their appearance at Rochester,
and mortals are to be deceived by their false, fascinating,
and snakelike charming powers, which go with them, the
day will come when the world will require the appearance of
<pb n='106'/><anchor id='Pg106'/>
another Saviour to redeem the world from its departing from
Christ's warnings.... Seeing, as we have, the gradual
progress it makes with its believers, particularly its mediums,
from lives of morality to those of sensuality and immorality,
gradually and cautiously undermining the foundation of
good principles, we look back with amazement to the radical
change which a few months will bring about in individuals;
for its tendency is to approve and endorse each individual act
and character, however good or bad these acts may be....</q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q>We desire to send forth our warning voice, and if our
humble position as the head of a public journal, our known
advocacy of Spiritualism, our experience, and the conspicuous
part we have played among its believers, the honesty and
the fearlessness with which we have defended the subject,
will weigh anything in our favor, we desire that our opinions
may be received, and those who are moving passively down
the rushing rapids to destruction should pause, ere it be too
late, and save themselves from the blasting influence which
those manifestations are causing.</q>
</quote>

<p>
Every one who knows anything about Spiritualism
has heard of Cora Hatch, who traveled extensively,
and manifested her powers as an extemporaneous
lecturer before astonished multitudes. One of her
husbands, Dr. Hatch, renounced Spiritualism, and
the following is from the testimony he bore concerning
it:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre">The most damning iniquities are everywhere perpetrated
in spiritual circles, a very small percentage of which
ever comes to public attention. I care not whether it be spiritual
or mundane, the facts exist, and should demand the
attention and condemnation of an intelligent community....
The abrogation of marriage, bigamy, accompanied by
robbery, theft, rape, are all chargeable upon Spiritualism.
I most solemnly affirm that I do not believe that there has,
during the last five hundred years, arisen any people who are
guilty of so great a variety of crimes and indecencies as the
Spiritualists of America.</q>
</quote>

<pb n='107'/><anchor id='Pg107'/>

<quote rend="display">
<q>For a long time I was swallowed up in its whirlpool of
excitement, and comparatively paid but little attention to
its evils, believing that much good might result from the
opening of the avenues of Spiritual intercourse. But during
the past eight months I have devoted my attention to critical
investigation of its moral, social, and religious bearing, and I
stand appalled before the revelations of its awful and damning
realities.</q>
</quote>

<p>
Much testimony of this nature might be given
from those who have had similar experiences and
equally favorable facilities for judging of the character
of Spiritualism. We present only a few extracts more.
</p>

<p>
Dr. Wm. B. Potter of New York, in an article
under the head of <q>Astounding Facts,</q> and also in
a tract entitled, <q>Spiritualism as It Is,</q> gives the
result of his experience and observations. His testimony
is the more valuable, since he writes not
from the standpoint of one who has renounced Spiritualism,
whose feelings may for the time be overwrought,
and his language stronger than would be
used in calmer moments. When he wrote, he was
still an advocate of Spiritualism, and spoke as a friend
who would, if possible, induce Spiritualists to reform
their faith and their manner of living. He says:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre">Fifteen years of critical study of Spiritual literature, an
extensive acquaintance with the leading Spiritualists, and a
patient, systematic, and thorough examination of the manifestations
for many years, enable us to speak from actual
knowledge, definitely and positively, of <q>Spiritualism as It
Is.</q> Spiritual literature is full of the most insidious and
seductive doctrines, calculated to undermine the very foundations
of morality and virtue, and lead to the most unbridled
licentiousness.</q>
</quote>

<pb n='108'/><anchor id='Pg108'/>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre">We are told that <q>we must have charity,</q> that it is
wrong to blame any one, that we must not expose iniquity,
as <q>it will harden the guilty,</q> that <q>none should be punished,</q>
that <q>man is a machine, and not to blame for his conduct,</q>
that <q>there is no high, no low, no good, no bad,</q> that <q>sin is a
lesser degree of righteousness,</q> that <q>nothing we can do can
injure the soul or retard its progress,</q> that <q>those who act the
worst will progress the fastest,</q> that <q>lying is right, slavery is
right, murder is right, adultery is right,</q> that <q>whatever is,
is right.</q></q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q>Hardly can you find a Spiritualist book, paper, lecture,
or communication that does not contain some of these pernicious
doctrines; in disguise, if not openly. Hundreds of
families have been broken up, and many affectionate wives
deserted by <q>affinity-seeking</q> husbands. Many once devoted
wives have been seduced, and left their husbands and tender,
helpless children, to follow some <q>higher attraction.</q> Many
well-disposed but simple-minded girls have been deluded
by <q>affinity</q> notions, and led off by <q>affinity hunters,</q> to be
deserted in a few months, with blasted reputations, or led
to deeds still more dark and criminal, to hide their shame.</q>
</quote>

<p>
The same writer also mentions a fact which shows
where the responsibility of all this looseness of morals
belongs. He says:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q>At the National Spiritual Convention at Chicago, called
to consider the question of a national organization, the only
plan approved by the committee, especially provided that no
charge should ever be entertained against any member, and
that any person, without any regard to his or her moral character,
might become a member.</q>
</quote>

<p>
The fact that no plan could find approval which
did not provide that they should never be blamed
nor called to account for any of their deeds, shows
on what points they felt the most anxious, and
plainly proves that they belong to the class of which
Christ spoke, who loved darkness rather than light,
<pb n='109'/><anchor id='Pg109'/>
and who would not come to the light lest their deeds
should be reproved. John 3:19-21.
</p>

<p>
It is unpleasant to wade through pools of filth,
and we therefore spare the reader quotations from
those Spiritualists who have not only avowed the
most revolting practices of free love, but openly
advocated the same, and endeavored to induce others
to come out likewise, on the ground that they were
only honestly and publicly admitting what the others
believed and practiced in secret. For the same
reason we pass by the notorious Woodhull and
Claflin, and Hull and Jamieson episodes, in this field,
which, in the illustration and language of another,
<q>burst upon the country like a rotten egg three
thousand miles in diameter!</q>
</p>

<p>
It may be said that these things are in the past
and the situation has now greatly changed. For the
benefit of those who thus flatter themselves we introduce
one more quotation. It is from <q>The Law of
Psychic Phenomena,</q> by T. J. Hudson (A. C.
McClurg &amp; Co., Chicago, 1894). The language is
candid and conciliatory, and the author cannot be
accused of any undue prejudice on the question of
which he speaks. On page 335, he says:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q>I do not charge Spiritualists as a class with being advocates
of the doctrines of free love. On the contrary, I am
aware that, as a class, they hold the marriage relation in sacred
regard. I cannot forget, however, that but a few years
ago some of their leading advocates and mediums proclaimed
the doctrine of free love in all its hideous deformity from
every platform in the land. Nor do I fail to remember that
the better class of Spiritualists everywhere repudiated the
<pb n='110'/><anchor id='Pg110'/>
doctrine, and denounced its advocates and exemplars. Nevertheless
the moral virus took effect here and there all over the
country, and it is doing its deadly work in secret in many an
otherwise happy home. And <emph>I charge a large and constantly
growing class of professional mediums with being the leading
propagandists</emph> of the doctrine of <emph>free love</emph>. They infest every
community in the land, and it is well known to all men and
women who are dissatisfied or unhappy in their marriage
relations, that they can always find sympathy by consulting
the average medium, and can, moreover, find justification for
illicit love by invoking the spirits of the dead through such
mediums.</q>
</quote>

<p>
We have italicized that passage in the foregoing
which shows that the deadly evil is still working in
secret, and that a large and constantly growing
number of professionals are aiding and abetting the
iniquity.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index="toc"/>
<head>Dangers Of Mediumship.</head>

<p>
A few testimonies will show that when one gives
himself or herself up to the control of the spirits,
such ones take a most perilous position. The spirits
insist on their victims becoming passive, ceasing to
resist, and yielding their whole wills to them. Some
of their persuasive words are these: <q>Come in confidence
to us;</q> <q>Let our teachings deeply impress
you;</q> <q>You must not doubt what we say;</q>
<q>Learn of us;</q> <q>Obey our directions and you will
be benefited;</q> <q>Seek to obtain knowledge of us;</q>
<q>Have faith in us;</q> <q>Fear not to obey;</q> <q>Obey
us and you will be greatly blessed;</q> etc., etc.
Mesmerists operate in the same way. They gain
control of their subjects in the same way that the
spirits mesmerize their mediums, and when under
<pb n='111'/><anchor id='Pg111'/>
their control, the spirits cause them to see whatever
they bring before them, and hear according to their
wills, and do as they bid. And the things they suppose
they see and hear, and what they are to do, are
only such things as exist in the mind of the mesmerizing
power. The subject is completely at the mercy
of the invisible agency; and to put one's self there
is a most heaven-daring and hazardous act. Mr.
Hudson (<q>Law of Psychic Phenomena,</q> p. 336)
says:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q>To the young whose characters are not formed, and to
those whose notions of morality are loose, the dangers of
mediumship are <emph>appalling</emph>.</q>
</quote>

<p>
To further gain the confidence of mortals, the
spirits claim to be the ones who answer their
prayers. In <q>Automatic Writing,</q> p. 142, we
have this:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre"><hi rend='italic'>Ques.</hi>&mdash;Will our friends tell us whether from
their point of view, there is any real efficacy in prayer?</q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q><hi rend='italic'>Ans.</hi> [by spirits].&mdash;Shall not <q>a soul's sincere
desire</q> arouse in discarnate and free spirits effort to make that sincere
desire a reality? What good can come from aspirations
on mortal planes, save through the efforts to make those
aspirations realized on spiritual planes, by the will of freed
spirits?</q>
</quote>

<p>
Mediums are unable to resist the powers of the
unseen world when once under their control.
Professor Brittan (<q>Telegraphic Answer to Mahan,</q>
p. 10), concerning mediumship, says:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q>We may further add in this connection that the trance
mediums for spirit intercourse are equally irresponsible.
Many of them are totally unable to resist the powers which
come to them from the invisible and unknown realms.</q>
</quote>

<pb n='112'/><anchor id='Pg112'/>

<p>
Dr. Randolph (<q>Dealings with the Dead,</q>
p. 150) shows the dangers of mediumship, as follows:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q>I saw that one great cause of the moral looseness of
thousands of sensitive-nerved people on earth, resulted from
the infernal possessions and obsessions of their persons by
delegations from those realms of darkness and (to all but
themselves) unmitigated horror. A sensitive man or woman&mdash;no
matter how virtuously inclined&mdash;may, unless by constant
prayer and watchfulness they prevent it and keep the
will active and the sphere entire, be led into the most
abominable practices and habits.</q>
</quote>

<p>
This same writer, in the same work, pp. 108,
109, says:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q>Those ill-meaning ones who live just beyond the threshold,
often obtain their ends by subtly infusing a semi-sense
of volitional power into the minds of their intended victims,
so that at last they come to believe themselves to be self-acting,
when in fact they are the merest shuttlecocks bandied
about between the battledores of knavish devils on one side,
and devilish knaves upon the other, and between the two the
poor fallen wretches are nearly heart-reft and destroyed.</q>
</quote>

<p>
A work by A. J. Davis called <q>The Diakka, and
their Earthly Victims,</q> mentions the nature of these
denizens of the spirit world, and their wonderful
location. The country (to speak after the manner
of men) which they inhabit, is so large that it would
require not less than 1,803,026 diameters of the
earth to span its longitudinal extent. This he had
from a spirit he calls James Victor Wilson, a
profound mathematician! This space is occupied
by spirits who have passed from earth, who are
<q>morally deficient, and affectionally unclean.</q>&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>Page</hi>
<pb n='113'/><anchor id='Pg113'/>
7. The same spirit, Wilson, describes the
diakka as those <q>who take insane delight in playing
parts, in juggling tricks, in personating opposite
characters to whom prayers and profane utterances
are of equi-value; surcharged with a passion for lyrical
narrations; one whose every attitude is instinct
with the schemes of specious reasoning, sophistry,
pride, pleasure, wit, subtle convivialities; a boundless
disbeliever, one who thinks that all private life
will end in the all-consuming self-love of God.</q>&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>Page
13.</hi> On page 13 he says further of them, that
they are <q>never resting, never satisfied with life,
often amusing themselves with jugglery and tricky
witticisms, invariably victimizing others; secretly
tormenting mediums, causing them to exaggerate in
speech, and to falsify in acts; unlocking and unbolting
the street doors of your bosom and memory;
pointing your feet into wrong paths, and far more.</q>
</p>

<p>
What this <q>far more</q> is, we are left to conjecture.
The advertisement of this book says that
it is <q>an explanation of much that is false and
repulsive in Spiritualism.</q> W. F. Jamieson, in a
Spiritualist paper, called these diakka <q>a troop
of devils,</q> and quoted Judge Carter as saying:
<q>There is one thing clear, that these diakka, or
fantastic or mixed spirits, are very numerous and
abundant, and take any and every opportunity of
obtruding themselves.</q>
</p>

<p>
Hudson Tuttle, author of <q>Life in Two Spheres</q>
and other Spiritualistic works, speaks of <q>a communication,
through a noted medium, to Gerald
<pb n='114'/><anchor id='Pg114'/>
Massey from his <q>dog Pip,</q> the said Pip <q>licking
the slate and writing with a good degree of intelligence.</q></q>
He adds, <q>Mr. Davis would say that
<q>Pip</q> was a <q>diakka,</q> and to-morrow he will communicate
as George Washington, Theodore Parker,
or Balaam's ass. This diakka is flesh, fish, or fowl,
as you may desire.</q>
</p>

<p>
Some idea of how the spirits sometimes torment
the mediums, as hinted at above, may be gained
from the following instance. In <q>Astounding Facts
from the Spirit World,</q> pp. 253, 254, Dr. Gridley
describes the case of a medium sixty years of age,
living near him in Southampton, Mass. The sufferings
inflicted upon him <q>in two months at the hands
of evil spirits would fill a volume of five hundred
pages.</q> Of these sufferings, the following are
specimens:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q>They forbade his eating, to the very point of starvation.
He was a perfect skeleton; they compelled him to walk day
and night, with intermissions, to be sure, as their avowed
object was to torment him as much and as long as possible.
They swore by everything sacred and profane, that they
would knock his brains out, always accompanying their
threats with blows on the forehead or temples, like that of a
mallet in the hands of a powerful man, with this difference,
however; the latter would have made him unconscious, while
in full consciousness he now endured the indescribable agony
of those heavy and oft-repeated blows; they declared they
would skin him alive; that he must go to New York and be
dissected by inches, all of which he fully believed. They
declared that they would bore holes into his brain, when he
instantly felt the action suited to the word, as though a dozen
augers were being turned at once into his very skull; this
done, they would fill his brain with bugs and worms to eat it
out, when their gnawing would instantly commence.
<pb n='115'/><anchor id='Pg115'/>
These spirits would pinch and pound him, twitch him up
and throw him down, yell and blaspheme, and use the most
obscene language that mortals can conceive; they would
declare that they were Christ in one breath, and devils in the
next; they would tie him head to foot for a long time together
in a most excruciating posture; declare they would wring
his neck off because he doubted or refused obedience.</q>
</quote>

<p>
Who can doubt that such spirits are the angels of
the evil one himself? Dr. Gridley in the same work,
p. 19, gives the experience of another medium, for
the truthfulness of which he offers the fullest
proof:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q>We have seen the medium evidently possessed by
Irishmen and Dutchmen of the lowest grade&mdash;heard him
repeat Joshua's drunken prayers [Joshua was a strong but
brutish man he had known in life], exactly like the original,&mdash;imitate
his drunkenness in word and deed&mdash;try to repeat,
or rather act over his most brutal deeds (from which for
decency's sake, he was instantly restrained by extraordinary
exertion and severe rebuke)&mdash;snap and grate his teeth most
furiously, strike and swear, while his eyes flashed like the
fires of an orthodox perdition. We have heard him hiss, and
seen him writhe his body like the serpent when crawling,
and dart out his tongue, and play it exactly like that reptile.
These exhibitions were intermingled with the most wrangling
and horrible convulsions.</q>
</quote>

<p>
These descriptions, it would seem, ought to be
enough to strike terror to any heart at the thought
of being a medium. But there is yet another phase
of the subject that should not be passed by. These
fallen spirits who are engineering the work of Spiritualism,
to maintain their <q>assumed characters,</q> and
<q>play their parts</q> like the aforesaid diakka, represent
that disembodied spirits <q>just over the threshold,</q>
still retain the characteristics they bore in life, such
<pb n='116'/><anchor id='Pg116'/>
as a disposition to sensuality and licentiousness, love
of rum, tobacco, and other vices, and that they can,
by causing the medium to plunge excessively into
these things, thereby still gratify their own propensities
to indulge in them. The following sketch by
Hudson Tuttle, a very popular author among Spiritualists,
is somewhat lengthy, but the idea could not
better be presented than by giving it entire. In
<q>Life in Two Spheres,</q> pp. 35-37, he says:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre">Reader, have you ever entered the respectable saloon?
Have you ever watched the stupid stare of the inebriate when
the eye grew less and less lustrous, slowly closing, the muscles
relaxing, and the victim of appetite sinking over on the floor
in beastly drunkenness? Oh, how dense the fumes of mingled
tobacco and alcohol! Oh, what misery confined in those
walls! If you have witnessed such scenes, then we need
describe no further. If you have not, then you had not
better hear the tale of woe. Imagine to yourselves a bar-room
with all its sots, and their number multiplied indefinitely,
while conscience-seared and bloated fiends stand
behind the bar, from whence they deal out death and damnation,
and the picture is complete. <emph>One has just arrived
from earth.</emph> He is yet uninitiated in the mysteries and miseries
of those which, like hungry lions, await him. He died
while intoxicated&mdash;was frozen while lying in the gutter, and
consequently is attracted toward this society. He possessed
a good intellect, but it was shattered beyond repair by his
debauches.</q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre"><q>Ye ar' a fresh one, aint ye?</q> coarsely queried a sot,
just then particularly communicative.</q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre"><q>Why, yes, I have just died, as they call it, and 'taint
so bad a change after all; only I suppose there'll be dry times
here for the want of something stimulant.</q></q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre"><q>Not so dry; lots of that all the time, and jolly times too.</q></q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre"><q>Drink! Can you drink, then?</q></q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre"><q>Yes, we just can, and feel as nice as you please. But
all can't, not unless they find one on earth just like them.
<pb n='117'/><anchor id='Pg117'/>
You go to earth, and mix with your chums; and when you
find one whose thoughts you can read, he's your man. Form
a connection with him, and when he gets to feeling <emph>good</emph>,
you'll feel so too.&mdash;There, do you understand me? I always
tell all fresh ones the glorious news, for how they would suffer
if it wasn't for this blessed thing.</q></q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre"><q>I'll try, no mistake.</q></q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q><q>Here's a covey,</q> spoke an ulcerous-looking being; <q>he's
of our stripe. Tim, did you hear what an infernal scrape I
got into last night? No, you didn't. Well, I went to our
friend Fred's; he didn't want to drink when I found him;
his dimes looked so extremely large. Well, I <emph>destroyed that
feeling</emph>, and made him think he was dry. He drank, and
drank, more than I wanted him to, until I was so drunk that
I could not break my connection with him, or control his
mind. He undertook to go home, fell into the snow, and
came near freezing to death. I suffered awfully, ten times
as much as when I died.</q>... Reader, we draw the curtain
over scenes like these, such as are daily occurring in this
society.</q>
</quote>

<p>
In these cases the whole evil of the indulgences
of course falls upon the mediums; and who would
wish to assume personal relation with such a world,
and be forced to bear in their own bodies the evils
of the unhallowed indulgences of unseen spirits,
against their will?
</p>

<p>
Other scenes represented as taking place in
the spirit land, are most grotesque and silly and
would be taken as a burlesque upon Spiritualism,
were they not put forth in all gravity by the friends
and advocates of that so-called new revelation.
Thus Judge Edmunds, giving an account of what he
had seen in the spirit world, mentions the case of an
old woman busy churning, who promised him, if he
would call again, a drink of buttermilk; he speaks
<pb n='118'/><anchor id='Pg118'/>
of men fighting, of courtezans trying to continue
their lewd conduct; of a mischievous boy who split
a dog's tail open, and put a stick in it, just to witness
its misery; of the owner of the dog, who, attracted
by its cries, discovered the cause, and beat
the boy, who fled, but was pursued and beaten and
kicked far up the road. See Edmund's <q>Spiritualism,</q>
Vol. II, pp. 135-144, 181, 182, 186, 189.
Surely here are the diakka playing their pranks in
all their glory.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index="toc"/>
<head>Miscellaneous Teaching.</head>

<p>
On the leading points of faith as held by Christians
generally, quotations have been given to show
sufficiently what the spirits teach, and the object
they are trying to effect. But the reader will be
interested to learn what they teach on some other
points which incidentally appear in their communications.
</p>

<p>
Spiritualists object most strenuously to the idea of
unconsciousness in death, or to the Bible declaration,
<q>The dead know not anything.</q> But the spirits
themselves teach this very thing. Thus Judge Edmunds,
Vol. II, Appendix B, p. 524, quotes the
confession of a spirit that he was totally unconscious
for a time, he could not tell how long, and awoke to
consciousness gradually; and that the state of unconsciousness
differs with different persons, depending
on circumstances. A. J. Davis admits that Professor
Webster was eight days and a half unconscious.&mdash;<hi rend='italic'><q>Death
and the After Life,</q> pp. 18, 19.</hi>
</p>

<pb n='119'/><anchor id='Pg119'/>

<p>
Through Mrs. Conant, medium, in <hi rend='italic'>Banner of Light</hi>,
June 3, 1865, we have this information: <q>It is
said that some spirits require a thousand years to
awake to consciousness. Is this true?&mdash;Yes, this
is true.</q> In <q>Automatic Writing,</q> p. 93, the
spirits teach the same thing to-day. If others deny
such statements, it only shows that their testimony
is contradictory and therefore unreliable.
</p>

<p>
Again, the Bible doctrine that the incorrigibly
wicked must cease from conscious existence, is denounced
by Spiritualists; but on this point the
spirits confess also:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre"><hi rend='italic'>Ques.</hi>&mdash;Do I understand you to say that a
diakka is one who believes in ultimate annihilation?</q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre"><hi rend='italic'>Ans.</hi>&mdash;Only yesterday one said to a lady
medium, signing himself <q>Swedenborg,</q> this: <q>Whatsoever is, has been,
will be, or may be, <emph>that</emph> <hi rend='smallcaps'>I am</hi>, and private
life is but the aggregative phantasms of thinking throblets rushing in their
rising onward to the central heart of eternal
death.</q></q>&mdash;<hi rend='italic'><q>Diakka</q>
p. 11.</hi>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre"><hi rend='italic'>Q.</hi>&mdash;Does every human being continue life on
higher planes?</q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q><hi rend='italic'>A.</hi>&mdash;Shall not all who are abortions die?</q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre"><hi rend='italic'>Q.</hi>&mdash;Do you mean that some born on this plane
may spiritually die from lack of force to persist?</q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q><hi rend='italic'>A.</hi>&mdash;Yes&mdash;both women and men are born into the
divine humanity who must necessarily perish, because they
have not sufficient soul strength to persist.</q>&mdash;<hi rend='italic'><q>Automatic
Writing,</q> pp. 101, 102.</hi>
</quote>

<p>
There is, it seems, a purgatory in the spirit
world. In answer to a question, a spirit replied:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q>There is a sphere in spirit life allotted to those who
leave the earthly plane in spiritual ignorance, which is <emph>not
pleasing</emph> to dwell upon, yet which is absolutely necessary to
spiritual soul growth.</q>&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>Id., p. 90.</hi>
</quote>

<pb n='120'/><anchor id='Pg120'/>

<p>
Spiritualism is claimed to settle the question of
immortality; but the spirits confess themselves
ignorant of it:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre"><hi rend='italic'>Ques.</hi>&mdash;On your plane do you arrive at
certainty in regard to immortality?</q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q><hi rend='italic'>Ans.</hi>&mdash;We here are as <emph>ignorant as you are</emph>
as to the ultimate of existence. Immortality is still an <emph>undetermined issue</emph>.
One life at a time seems as pertinent with us as with
you.</q>&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>Id., p. 103.</hi>
</quote>

<p>
The spirits' heaven, it seems, is not so desirable
a place that it prevents their being homesick.
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre"><hi rend='italic'>Ques.</hi>&mdash;Why are you homesick?</q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q><hi rend='italic'>Ans.</hi>&mdash;Have not found out the real reason; things are
so different from former ideas.</q>&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>Id., p. 111.</hi>
</quote>

<p>
Spirits are not allowed to tell too much about
their condition, as the following question and answer
show:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre"><hi rend='italic'>Ques.</hi>&mdash;Can't you tell us what makes
it pleasanter,&mdash;describe so we can understand?</q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q><hi rend='italic'>Ans.</hi>&mdash;You'll find out as I did&mdash;<emph>'gainst
the rules here to tell</emph>.... Just be patient&mdash;it's all easy enough when you
learn how. I was puzzled, but it all seems straight enough
now.</q>&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>Id., p. 115.</hi>
</quote>

<p>
They teach the pre-existence of souls, and the
old pagan doctrines of the reincarnation of souls,
and the final absorption of all into Nirvana. A
spirit having answered that all had been asserted in
some other form, questions and answers followed
from which we quote:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre"><hi rend='italic'>Q.</hi>&mdash;Is that statement an intimation of the
truth of reincarnation?</q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q><hi rend='italic'>A.</hi>&mdash;Souls of all who have preceded you are centered
in you in spite of your childish protests. Ask not of those
<pb n='121'/><anchor id='Pg121'/>
predecessors; for they yet live in you, and you in them....
Long ago you and I went over the ground under eminent
names.... Were not we together when Socrates and
Aspasia talked?</q>&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>Id., pp. 151, 152.</hi>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre"><hi rend='italic'>Q.</hi>&mdash;Can you tell us, at least, whether
spirit, as a whole or in its individual atoms, exists eternally?</q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q><hi rend='italic'>A.</hi>&mdash;Yes; spirit as a whole is
eternal&mdash;exists&mdash;did exist&mdash;by force of Powers you cannot understand.
But you as individual, self-conscious, atomistic particles of spirit
wholeness, are not eternal, and must return to the Primal
Source.</q>&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>Id., p. 133.</hi>
</quote>

</div>

<div>
<index index="toc"/>
<head>Spirits Cannot Be Identified.</head>

<p>
Having now sufficiently examined the teaching of
the spirits, a final question arises in regard to them,
whether it is possible to identify them, and determine
with any absolute certainty whether they are
the spirits of the particular individuals they claim to
be, or even spirits of the dead at all, or not. It
should be distinctly borne in mind, always, that evil
angels, whose existence has been proved from the
Bible, whose nature and delight is to deceive, can
walk the earth unseen, imitate and personate any individual,
and reveal their characteristics of thought,
writing, acts, form, and features, and make so perfect
a counterfeit as to defy detection. How, then, can
it be told what spirit it is, even though it shows the
face and features of some well-known friend? On
this topic, as on preceding questions, Spiritualists
themselves may produce the evidence. President
Mahan (<q>Discussion with Tiffany and Rhen,</q> p. 13)
remarks:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q>Certain experiments have been made, in order to determine
whether spirits are present. Individuals go in as
<pb n='122'/><anchor id='Pg122'/>
inquirers, and get definite answers&mdash;in the first place, from
<emph>departed spirits</emph> of persons <emph>yet living</emph>; in the second place,
from departed spirits of persons who <emph>never existed</emph> here or anywhere
else; in the third place, from the departed spirits of brute
beasts.</q>
</quote>

<p>
When it is considered, as already noted, that
spirits do their work through mesmeric power, it is
easy to understand how the medium is made to believe
that such and such a spirit is communicating
when it is not so at all. This question of identity
came up in the very early stages of Spiritualism, and
is no nearer settled, on their own confession, now
than then. A Mr. Hobart, in 1856, who claimed to
be the first Spiritualist in Michigan, made the following
admission:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q>The spirit sometimes <emph>assumes</emph> the name of an individual
belonging to the same church, to induce them to hear. This
is necessary with some who are so bigoted they would not
believe unless a name was assumed which they respected.</q>
</quote>

<p>
An article in the <hi rend='italic'>Spiritual Telegraph</hi>, of July 11,
1857, begins as follows:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q>The question is continually being asked, especially by
novitiates in spiritual investigations, How shall we know
that the spirits who communicate with us are really the ones
whom they purport to be?... In giving the results of our
own experience and observation upon this subject, we would
premise that spirits unquestionably can, and often do, personate
other spirits, and that, too, often with such perfection
as, for the time being, to defy every effort to detect
the deception.... If direct tests are demanded at all, we
would recommend that they be asked for the purpose of
proving that the manifesting influence is that of <emph>a spirit</emph>,
rather than to prove what <emph>particular</emph> spirit is the agent of its
production.</q>
</quote>

<pb n='123'/><anchor id='Pg123'/>

<p>
This is an entire begging of the whole matter in
question; for it is not denied that it is <emph>a</emph> spirit; we
want to know what <emph>particular</emph> spirit it is; but for
that we must not ask; for it cannot be ascertained.
The same article states that other and lower spirits
often crowd in and take the place of the spirit communicating,
without the knowledge of the medium.
We might also quote <q>Spiritualism as It Is,</q> p. 14,
that <q>not one per cent. of the manifestations have
had a higher origin than the first and second spheres,
which are filled with low, ignorant, deceptive, mischievous,
selfish, egotistical spirits;</q> and <q>Dealings
with the Dead,</q> p. 225, that <q>the fact is, good
spirits do not appear one tenth as often as imagined.</q>
</p>

<p>
Jan. 7, 1888, the following appeared in the <hi rend='italic'>Banner
of Light</hi>:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre"><hi rend='italic'>Ques.</hi>&mdash;What is the cause of our receiving
inconsistent and untruthful communications? Does the blame, if any
there is, rest with us or the controlling intelligence?</q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q><hi rend='italic'>Ans.</hi>&mdash;There are spirits who delight in imposing upon
mortals; they realize their power outside of material things,
and that those who seek knowledge from them <emph>cannot see nor
get hold of them</emph>; therefore to an extent they exercise a certain
power over those mortals who approach; and if the mortals
are themselves tricky by nature, insincere, ready to take advantage
of others, whether it be at the time of sitting or in
their daily life, rest assured they may be imposed upon by
spirits from the other side who occupy a like plane of existence
with themselves.</q>
</quote>

<p>
Mediums themselves will not trust the spirits,
according to statements made as late as 1896.
Mrs. S. A. Underwood, medium, in <q>Automatic
Writing,</q> p. 55, says:&mdash;
</p>

<pb n='124'/><anchor id='Pg124'/>

<quote rend="display">
<q>With all my experience in it, I would not to-day venture
upon any change, business venture, friendship, or line of conduct,
advised from this source, unless my own common material
sense endorsed it. Indeed, I would not take as fact any
of its even reasonable advice without question, because it is
not reliable as a guide in earthly affairs.</q>
</quote>

<p>
Spirit communication, then, certainly does not
amount to much as a heavenly instructor, a celestial
guide to enlighten the ignorance of men. Whatever
we know ourselves, we may rely upon; all else is
uncertain. Again, on p. 56, she says:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q>Then the assumption of great names by apparently
common-place minds is a very strange thing. I was horrified
and annoyed when this occurred under my own hand, because
that is one of the things which disgusted me with spiritual
messages before this writing came to me, as I had occasionally
glanced over such messages. When I protested against
such assumption, I was told that <q>Elaine and Guinevere</q>
were not real beings, but types. So somewhere in our sphere
are spirits who embody cleverness in creations of their own
fancy, and adopt names suited to that fancy.</q>
</quote>

<p>
Thus the spirits themselves confess that the names
they often assume are not those of real beings, but
typical and fanciful. Nothing more, it would seem,
is necessary to complete the condemnation of Spiritualism,
so far as its own nature is concerned. When
in addition to all else, it appears that the spirits cannot
be identified; that the whole underlying claim
that the spirits are the spirits of the dead, must itself
be assumed; and that, too, in the face of the numberless
known falsehoods and deceptions that are constantly
issuing from the unseen realm,&mdash;there is
nothing left for it to stand upon.
</p>

</div>

</div>

<pb n='125'/><anchor id='Pg125'/>

<div rend="page-break-before: always">
<index index="toc" level1="Chapter Six. Its Promises: How Fulfilled."/>
<index index="pdf" level1="Chapter Six."/>
<head type="sub">Chapter Six.</head>
<head>Its Promises: How Fulfilled.</head>

<p>
It is fair to call Spiritualism to account as to the
fulfilment of the promises involved in its challenge
to the world when it stepped upon the stage of
action. No movement ever opened with more magnificent
promises. It posed before the world as an
angel of heavenly light. It claimed to be the second
coming of Christ. It claimed to have been sent to
regenerate mankind, and renovate the world. We
give herewith a few of its spirit-inspired pretensions.
Its <q>Declaration of Principles,</q> Article 20, says:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q>The hearty and intelligent convictions of these truths
[the teachings of spirits] tend to energize the soul in all that
is good and elevating, and to restrain from all that is evil and
impure, ... to quicken all philanthropic impulses, stimulating
to enlightened and unselfish labors for universal good.</q>
</quote>

<p>
In behalf of the cause of woman it says:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q>Spiritualism has done more for the advancement of true
womanhood than the Church or any of its accessories.</q>&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>Dr.
Watson, in Banner of Light, April 16, 1887.</hi>
</quote>

<p>
Miss A. L. Lull, in the <hi rend='italic'>Religio-Philosophical
Journal</hi> of Jan. 23, 1886, said:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q>Spiritualism is the saviour of humanity, because it
is reaching out toward the criminal, and in its effort to lift
<pb n='126'/><anchor id='Pg126'/>
humanity to a higher plane, it is laying the foundation for
future generations.... Spiritualism comes to cleanse out
the dregs and wretchedness of humanity.</q>
</quote>

<p>
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, in a mediumistic discourse
reported in the <hi rend='italic'>Banner of Light</hi>, April 3,
1886, said:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q>The Great Reformer of the world is Spiritualism....
When modern Spiritualism made its appearance, it said in
so many words, I come to reform the world.... Spiritualism
came to put the ax at the root of the tree of human
evil, it came to decide upon the most important and vital
thing connected with existence; <hi rend='italic'>i. e.</hi>, Is man only an evanescent,
material, earthly being, or is he immortal?... Spiritualism
came to reform death, to resolve it into life; came to
reform fear, to resolve it into trust and knowledge; came to
reform the darkness which rests upon humanity concerning
the nature of man's existence.</q>
</quote>

<p>
In the same paper, April 6, 1887, was given the
following prediction of the future of Spiritualism:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q>Modern Spiritualism will grow, and deepen, and broaden,
and strengthen, until all false creeds and dogmas shall be
swept from the earth&mdash;when faith shall be buried in knowledge,
when war shall be known no more, when universal
brotherhood shall prevail to bless mankind.</q>
</quote>

<p>
In <q>Nineteenth Century Miracles,</q> p. 79, M.
Jaubert speaks as follows:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q>Affirm to your people that man never dies, that his
immortality is proved, not by books but by material and
tangible facts, of which every one can convince himself; that
anon our houses of correction, and our prisons, will disappear;
suicide will be erased from our mortuary tables; and nobly
borne, the calamities of earth shall no longer produce madness.</q>
</quote>

<pb n='127'/><anchor id='Pg127'/>

<p>
Mrs. R. S. Lillie, in a speech at the Thirty-eighth
Anniversary services in Horticultural Hall, Boston,
Mass., and reported in the <hi rend='italic'>Banner of Light</hi>, of
April, 1886, said:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q>Christianity never had a Pentecost to be compared with
modern Spiritualism. The latter is as far in advance of the
former, as the electric light is in advance of the tallow dip of
the past; for it is nineteen centuries ahead of it.</q>
</quote>

<p>
These are most astounding claims; and if there
is any truth in them, Spiritualism ought to have
shown itself as a great uplifting moral power, provided
it has been able to get any foothold among the
people. We therefore inquire what its success has
been. On this point Professor Keck, at the Thirty-ninth
Anniversary of Modern Spiritualism, at
Bridgeport, Conn. (<hi rend='italic'>Banner of Light</hi>, April 9,
1887), said:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q>It [Spiritualism] has made converts of more scientific
men and profound thinkers than any other sect in the world.
In thirty-nine years it has grown to ten or fifteen millions of
believers, with thousands of mediums, a literature printed in
every known language, and converts in every quarter of the
globe.</q>
</quote>

<p>
With all these facilities and all this success, it
surely has been able to make good its claims, and
fulfil its promises, if its nature is such as it assumes,
and its promises are good for anything; and its
course should be marked by a great decrease of
crime, by the promotion of virtue and a general
improvement in the moral tone of society, wherever
it has gone. For nearly fifty years it has now been
operating in the world; and with all its glowing
<pb n='128'/><anchor id='Pg128'/>
professions of what it was able to do, and its millions
of converts, <q>energized to all that is good and elevating,</q>
its impress for good should everywhere be seen.
</p>

<p>
But what are the facts?&mdash;Just the reverse of
what has been promised. Free love, which is free
lust, has followed in its wake; homes have been
ruined, families scattered, characters blighted; while
insanity and suicide have been the fate, or the last
resort, of too many of its victims. And outside of
its own ranks, in the world at large, the fifty years
since the advent of Spiritualism have been years of
increase of crime and every evil in a fast growing
ratio. Liquor drinking, tobacco using, gambling,
prostitution, defalcations, robberies, bribery, municipal
corruption, divorces, thefts, insanity, suicide,
and murder, have increased in far more rapid ratio
than the population itself.
</p>

<p>
The reader will remember the testimony of Dr.
Randolph, p. 105, that five of his friends destroyed
themselves, and he attempted it for himself, by direct
spirit influences. The Philadelphia <hi rend='italic'>Record</hi>, of Feb.
17, 1894, speaks of the suicide of May Brooklyn in
San Francisco, Cal.:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q>The letters and papers left by the dead woman show
plainly that in her grief over the death of Lovecraft she had
dabbled in Spiritualism, and had finally reached the conclusion
that her only chance of happiness lay in joining her
lover in the other world.</q>
</quote>

<p>
A few figures, as samples, will be given just to
emphasize the general statements. The following is
from the Chicago <hi rend='italic'>Tribune</hi> of Jan. 1, 1893:&mdash;
</p>

<pb n='129'/><anchor id='Pg129'/>

<quote rend="display">
<q>The number of persons who have committed suicide in
the United States during the year (1892), as gathered from
telegraph and mail report to the <hi rend='italic'>Tribune</hi>, is 3860, as compared
with 3331 last year (1891), 2640 in 1890, and 2224 in
1889. The total is much larger than that of any of the
eleven preceding years.</q>
</quote>

<p>
The <hi rend='italic'>Christian Reformer</hi> gives the following
figures of murders, suicides, and embezzlements
from 1891-1893:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre">Murders in 1893, 6615; increase over 1891 of 709.</q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre">Suicides in 1893, 4436; increase over 1892, 576; 1891, 1105.</q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q>Funds embezzled in 1893, $19,929,692; increase of 100
per cent. over 1892.</q>
</quote>

<p>
It may be asked, What has this to do with Spiritualism?&mdash;It
is a test of the value of its promises.
Spiritualism has been posing for fifty years as the
<q>world's reformer,</q> the great energizing, uplifting
force to elevate mankind, the mighty power
which has come to empty our workhouses and
prisons, abolish suicides and all crime, the <q>electric
light</q> compared with the <q>tallow dip</q> of the
gospel. And yet with all these claims, with its
millions of adherents, and the funds and influence at
its command, it is allowing, year by year, crime to
increase much faster than the population. Now if
Spiritualism was the purifying, renovating power
which it claims to be, such results could not have
been seen. It is very evident, that, as a power in
the world in behalf of righteousness and humanity,
it has been of no account; and as between the forces
of good and evil, its weight has been on the side of
evil instead of good. It is thus that the author of
<pb n='130'/><anchor id='Pg130'/>
Spiritualism, the father of deception, fulfils the
promises made through that channel to deceive
mankind. What organized, aggressive efforts against
evil has Spiritualism ever shown? Where are its
schools and colleges? Where are its hospitals and
benevolent institutions? Where are its organized
charities? and what are its millions of members
doing to relieve suffering and distress, and turn men
to better ways of living? The very aspect it presents
to the world to-day, stamps the brand of Cain
upon its brow. The Boston <hi rend='italic'>Herald</hi> of Dec. 17,
1874, said:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q>Let Spiritualism produce some idea, utter some word,
or perform some deed, which will have novelty, and yet be of
manifest value to the human race, and it will make good its
claims to our serious consideration. But it has not done this.
For nearly thirty years it has been before the world in its
present shape, and in all that time, with all its asserted command
of earthly and superterrestrial knowledge, it has never
done an act, or breathed a syllable, or supplied an idea which
had any value as a contribution to the welfare of the race, or
to its stock of knowledge. Its messages from learned men
who are dead, have been the silliest bosh; its stories about
life upon the planets are wretched guesses, many of which
can be proved false by the astronomer; its visions have
frightened scores of people into madhouses, and made semi-lunatics
of hundreds of others.</q>
</quote>

<p>
If this charge was good as late as 1874, it is
equally so at the present time. And thus are we
forced to the conclusion that Spiritualism, judged by
the light of its fair promises, is one of the most
lamentable of delusions, and most stupendous of
failures.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='131'/><anchor id='Pg131'/>

<div rend="page-break-before: always">
<index index="toc" level1="Chapter Seven. Spiritualism A Subject Of Prophecy."/>
<index index="pdf" level1="Chapter Seven."/>
<head type="sub">Chapter Seven.</head>
<head>Spiritualism A Subject Of Prophecy.</head>

<p>
We come now to one of the most timely and
important features of this whole subject; for
God in his word has foretold and forewarned the
world of the movement here passing under review.
He has made known the time when it should appear,
the character it would bear, and the work it is to do.
He has also connected this with the great event of
all-overshadowing importance to this world, of which
it is a startling sign and sure precursor; namely,
the second coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. We
ask the special attention of the reader to this part of
the subject.
</p>

<p>
A word of digression may be allowed as to the
place which prophecy holds in the word of God.
Prophecy is that feature of the sacred volume which
constitutes it a lamp to our feet and a light to our
path. Ps. 119:105; 2 Peter 1:19. It is that
which enables that word to be a guide to the hosts
of Israel through the weary journey and the gloomy
shades of time, giving to every era its <q>present
truth,</q> and showing the progress of the slow-revolving
ages toward the great consummation. It
<pb n='132'/><anchor id='Pg132'/>
is the golden credential which the Bible holds up to
the world of its genuineness and authenticity.
</p>

<p>
Prophecy is peculiar to the Christian Scriptures.
No other so-called sacred books contain this feature.
It is not found in the Vedas, Shasters, or Puranas of
the Hindus, nor the Zend Avestas of the Parsees,
nor the Kojiki Nohonki, of the Shintos of Japan,
nor the law books of Manu, nor the Koran of the
Mohammedans, nor the Kan-Ying-Peen or Tao-Te-King
of the Chinese, nor the Tripitakas of the
Buddhists. The reason is obvious. Neither the
minds of men nor of angels, either good or bad, can
read the future. Divine omniscience alone can see
the end from the beginning and foretell the great
events that shall mark the history of the world, and
affect the interests of the church. It is this that
stamps the Bible as divine, and lifts it immeasurably
above all other books. It is indeed passing strange
that all cannot see this. Instead of being a book
that grows obsolete and out of date with the passing
years, like the productions of men, it is the only
book ever seen upon the earth which is ever abreast
of the times in every age, and lifts the veil of the
future before him who honestly and reverently seeks
its pages for a knowledge of the truth. Those
who ignore or despise the prophecies, rob the Bible
of one of the brightest stars in its crown of
glory.
</p>

<p>
To be entitled to claim credit as divine, any
book or system should be able to show that it can
correctly foretell the future. The spirits see this,
<pb n='133'/><anchor id='Pg133'/>
and, knowing that they cannot do it, discountenance
and discourage all such efforts. Here is a little of
their teaching on the subject:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre"><hi rend='italic'>Ques.</hi>&mdash;Why are so many predictions made through
mediums, which prove false?</q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre"><hi rend='italic'>Ans.</hi>&mdash;Wonderful <emph>guesses</emph>
are sometimes made by daring spirits.</q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre"><hi rend='italic'>Q.</hi>&mdash;Can you tell us anything of the future?</q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre"><hi rend='italic'>A.</hi>&mdash;Pharos says you must not ask questions
of the future&mdash;spirits who <emph>prophesy</emph> are <emph>not
good</emph> spirits.</q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q rend="pre"><hi rend='italic'>Q.</hi>&mdash;Do you mean that it is not best for us to
know the future?</q>
</quote>

<quote rend="display">
<q><hi rend='italic'>A.</hi>&mdash;Souls on your plane are undergoing discipline, and
it would cost more than it is worth to foretell the future of
your state.</q>&mdash;<hi rend='italic'><q>Automatic Writing,</q> pp. 141, 142.</hi>
</quote>

<p>
Spiritualists rail at God for prohibiting from Adam
and Eve, in the garden, the tree of the knowledge
of good and evil, to keep them in ignorance. What
will they say to these spirits who coolly answer that
<q>it would cost more than it is worth</q> to give them
any knowledge of future events? This, perhaps,
they will consider all right because it isn't God who
says it.
</p>

<p>
1. Let us then see what God has said of the time
and work and significance of Spiritualism. Over
seven hundred years before Christ, the prophet
Isaiah wrote of our time, as follows: <q>And when
they shall say unto you, Seek unto them that have
familiar spirits, and unto wizards that peep and that
mutter, should not a people seek unto their God?
for the living to the dead? To the law and to the
testimony; if they speak not according to this word,
it is because there is no light in them.</q>
</p>

<pb n='134'/><anchor id='Pg134'/>

<p>
Here is certainly a prophecy that a time would
come when just such a work as Spiritualism is now doing
would be a distinguishing feature of the age. The
present must be the time referred to, because it has
never been so in any past age; and the present meets
the specifications in every particular. It shows that
the only safety for any one now is to seek unto his
God, and make the law and the testimony, the word
of God, the great standard by which to try all spirits.
1 John 4:1. And another great event is directly
connected with this, that is, the second coming of
Christ; for according to verses 16-18, the disciples
are then looking for him.
</p>

<p>
2. Matt. 24:24: <q>For there shall arise false
Christs, and false prophets, and shall show great
signs and wonders; insomuch that, if it were possible,
they shall deceive the very elect.</q>
</p>

<p>
A deception of no ordinary power is here brought
to view. It really results in the division of Christendom;
for all but the elect are carried away by it.
In its own claims, Spiritualism fulfils the <q>Christs</q>
and <q>prophets</q> part of the declaration, claiming of
course to be true, while the Bible says it is <q>false.</q>
The signs and wonders are beginning to be seen
in the many <q>inexplicable</q> phenomena attending
Spiritualism. But many more startling exhibitions,
as will be presently shown, are yet to appear. We
charge upon Spiritualism, so far, the fulfilment of
this prophecy. But mark! this occurs when the
Son of man is about to appear <q>as the lightning
cometh out of the east, and shineth even unto the
<pb n='135'/><anchor id='Pg135'/>
west</q> (verse 27); and it is one of the prominent
signs of that event. See the prophecy from verse
23 to verse 35. Mark and Luke also dwell upon the
same prediction, as gathered from the lips of our
Lord himself.
</p>

<p>
3. Heb. 10:28, 29: <q>He that despised Moses'
law died without mercy under two or three witnesses.
Of how much sorer punishment, suppose
ye, shall he be thought worthy, who hath trodden
under foot the Son of God, and hath counted the
blood of the covenant, wherewith he was sanctified,
an unholy thing, and hath done despite unto the
Spirit of grace?</q>
</p>

<p>
It is the bold stand which Spiritualism has taken
against Christ and the atonement, that makes this
scripture applicable to that work. The apostle is
speaking of the times when the great <q>day is approaching</q>
(verse 25); when it is but a little while,
and he that shall come, will come and will not tarry
(verse 37), and the introduction of verse 29, in such
a connection, becomes a prophecy that such an outbreak
against Christ and his atoning work would be
seen when he is about to come again. And the fulfilment
we are now beholding in Spiritualism.
</p>

<p>
4. Rev. 12:12: <q>Woe to the inhabiters of the
earth and of the sea! for the devil is come down
unto you, having great wrath, because he knoweth
that he hath but a short time.</q>
</p>

<p>
This scripture locates itself. It is when Satan
knows that he has but a little time to work, and
hence it must be in the last days. At this time he
<pb n='136'/><anchor id='Pg136'/>
descends upon the world in an avalanche of wrath.
<q>Wrath</q> is a misleading term. The words θυμόν μέγαν
signify the strongest and most intense emotion of the
mind. If the object is to accomplish some particular
end, they would indicate the most intense, concentrated,
energetic, and persistent efforts to that purpose,
using every means, and bringing to bear every
influence to reach the result in question. Satan, as
we have seen, has an object in deceiving the human
family, as far as possible, to their destruction, by
signs and wonders. In this work, according to the
prophecy before us, he will go to the extent of his
power, and show his most potent signs. Bringing
the supposed forms and features of the dead before
living witnesses, is his most successful method at the
present time. But as this work is, as yet, done
largely in the dark, it gives more room for jugglery
and imposition. The time will come, however, when,
in open light, counterfeit materializations of the dead
will swarm on earth, and deceive, if it were possible,
the very elect&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>i.e.</hi>, all who cannot meet the
deception with the potent weapon&mdash;<q>It is written,
The dead know not anything, neither have they any
more a portion forever [in the present state of things]
in anything that is done under the sun.</q>
</p>

<p>
5. Rev. 13:13, 14: <q>And he doeth great wonders,
so that he maketh fire come down from heaven
on the earth in the sight of men, and deceiveth
them that dwell on the earth by the means of those
miracles which he had power to do.</q>
</p>

<p>
This prophecy relates to some earthly government
represented by a symbol with two horns like a lamb.
<pb n='137'/><anchor id='Pg137'/>
Verse 11. It is part of a prophecy beginning with
chapter twelve, and ending with verse 5 of chapter
fourteen. It is not the place here to introduce an
exposition of this prophecy. It is only necessary to
state that the position taken is that the lamblike
symbol represents our own government, the United
States of America.<note place='foot'>For a full argument on this point,
fortified by testimony, the application of which is beyond question,
see works treating on the United States as a subject of prophecy,
for sale by the International Tract Society, Battle Creek, Mich.</note>
And the great wonders that he
does, apply to the marvelous manifestations of Spiritualism.
It is a significant fact that Spiritualism
arose in this country, thus fitting itself exactly to the
prophecy. The climax of the wonders brought to
view in the text, making <q>fire come down from
heaven on the earth in the sight of men,</q> has not
yet been reached. More is therefore to be developed.
Yea, this wonder-working power is to go forward
till that which, in the time of Elijah, was
the test between the false god Baal and the Lord
Jehovah, is brought to pass, and fire is made to come
down from heaven on the earth in the sight of men.
And the sad feature of this case will be that the multitudes,
not perceiving the change of issue, will take
the act down here to be a test of truth, as it was in
the days of Elijah.
</p>

<p>
Taken in connection with other portions of the
book of Revelation, this prophecy reveals clearly
what the agency that works the miracles is. The
dragon, representing paganism (Rev. 12:3, 4); the
beast, representing the papacy (Rev. 13:1-10); and
the lamblike symbol, representing Protestantism,
<pb n='138'/><anchor id='Pg138'/>
or more specifically, Protestant America (Rev.
13:11-17), constitute the symbols of this prophecy.
For convenience, let us designate them as <hi rend='italic'>A</hi>,
<hi rend='italic'>B</hi>, and <hi rend='italic'>C</hi>;
respectively. <hi rend='italic'>C</hi> works his miracles in sight of
<hi rend='italic'>B</hi>; <hi rend='italic'>B</hi> and <hi rend='italic'>C</hi>
are again brought to view in Rev. 19:20, and there <hi rend='italic'>C</hi> is
called <q>the false prophet.</q> We know
the false prophet here is the same as <hi rend='italic'>C</hi>, because he
works miracles before <hi rend='italic'>B</hi>, the same as <hi rend='italic'>C</hi>
does in chapter 13:14. All together, <hi rend='italic'>A</hi>,
<hi rend='italic'>B</hi>, and <hi rend='italic'>C</hi> are brought to view
in Rev. 16:13, and unclean spirits like frogs are
said to come out of their mouths; and then verse 14
tells what they are: <q>For they are spirits of devils,
working miracles.</q> This, then, not the spirits of
dead men, is the agency that works the miracles of
chapter 13:13, 14. We follow the subject so far,
at this point, merely to identify the agency that
works the miracles, and shall have more to say upon
it. But before passing, we would remind the reader
that here also the subject is connected with the second
coming of Christ; for the prophecy of Revelation
13 ends with the redemption of the church
which immediately follows. Rev. 14:1-5.
</p>

<p>
6. 2 Thess. 2:9-12: <q>Even him, whose coming
is after the working of Satan, with all power and
signs and lying wonders, and with all deceivableness
of unrighteousness in them that perish; because they
received not the love of the truth, that they might
be saved. And for this cause God shall send them
strong delusion, that they should believe a lie: that
they all might be damned who believed not the truth,
but had pleasure in unrighteousness.</q>
</p>

<pb n='139'/><anchor id='Pg139'/>

<p>
Here, again, we have the great fact brought out
with still more startling emphasis, that there is to be
a great outbreaking of Satanic power among men,
just before and up to, the coming of Christ. And
if we already see the preliminary and even far-advanced
working of this power in Spiritualism, the
world should stand aghast at the perils of the times
in which we live. The coming of Christ is brought
to view in verse 8, and verse 9 states that at that
time Satan will be working with all power. The
common version is calculated to obscure this passage.
The words <q>even him</q> (verse 9) are wrongly and
unnecessarily supplied. Literally rendered, the last
clause of verse 8, and the first of verse 9 would read
as follows: <q>Whom the Lord ... shall destroy
with the brightness of his [Christ's] coming; of
whom [Christ] the coming is, after [or at the time
of] the working of Satan,</q> etc. The word <q>after</q>
is from, the Greek κατα (<hi rend='italic'>kata</hi>), which when referring
to time, as in this case, does not mean <q>after or
according to,</q> but <q>within the range of, during, in
the course of, at, about,</q> as in 2 Tim. 4:1, where
it is rendered <q>at.</q>
</p>

<p>
So here is a plain declaration that at the very
time when Christ comes Satan will be working in
the hight of his power, by signs and lying wonders
(wonders to prove a lie) to keep the people under falsehood
and deception. Verses 10-12 tell who his victims
are, and why they become such: they are those
who preferred the pleasures of sin to the practice of
righteousness, and so would not receive the truth,
<pb n='140'/><anchor id='Pg140'/>
nor the love of it. In all such cases God's throne is
clear. He always, as in this case, sets truth first
before the people, gives them a chance, and calls
upon them to embrace it, and be saved. But when
men, as free moral agents, whom God will not force
into his kingdom, refuse to receive the truth, shut
their eyes, close their ears, and steel their hearts
against it, and find their pleasure in unrighteousness,
in going in just the opposite direction;&mdash;what can
God do for them? We leave the skeptic himself to
answer. For more years than Spiritualism, in its
present phase, has been before the world, several
religious bodies have made a specialty of the great
Bible truth concerning the state of the dead, and
life only in Christ, which effectually shields all those
who receive it against the rapping delusion.
</p>

<p>
7. Rev. 18:2: <q>And he cried mightily with a
strong voice, saying, Babylon the great is fallen, is
fallen, and is become the habitation of devils, and
the hold of every foul spirit, and a cage of every
unclean and hateful bird.</q>
</p>

<p>
Among the many predictions given in the word
of God touching the last days, is one which foretokens
a wide-spread and lamentable declension in
the religious world. The phrase which embodies it,
is the one just quoted, <q>Babylon is fallen.</q> The
term <q>Babylon</q> is not intended nor used as a term
of reproach, but rather as a descriptive word setting
forth the very undesirable condition of <q>mixture</q>
and <q>confusion</q> in the religious world. It is certainly
not the Lord's will, who prayed that all his
<pb n='141'/><anchor id='Pg141'/>
people should be one, that scores or hundreds of
divisions and sects should exist within his church.
That is owing, exclaims the Catholic, to the Protestant
rule of private judgment. It is not. It is
owing to that Pandora's box of mystical interpretation
placed in the church by old Origen, that prince
of mischief-makers. By this method, which has
no method and no standard, the interpretations of
God's word will ever be as various and numerous
as the whims and fancies that may find a place in
the minds of men.
</p>

<p>
But all this confusion must be remedied in that
church which will be ready for the second advent;
for no people will be prepared for translation but
such as worship the Lord in both <emph>spirit</emph> and <emph>truth</emph>.
To bring the church to this point, a call has been
sent to Christendom in the special truths for this
time. Most turn away, but some are taking the
stand to which these circumstances summon them.
The process is simple. It is but to read and obey
God's word in the light of what is called the literal
rule of interpretation. No other rule would ever
have been thought of, if the Devil had let the
minds of men alone. By this rule the true Sabbath
would always have been maintained a perfect safeguard
against idolatry in the earth; the law would
have held its place as a perfect, immutable, and
eternal rule of conduct, a safeguard against the
antinomianism of all ages and the Spiritualism of
to-day; the view that the dead remain unconscious in
the grave till the resurrection, would always have
<pb n='142'/><anchor id='Pg142'/>
been held, and then there could have been no purgatory,
no masses for the dead, no Mariolatry, no
saint worship&mdash;in short, no Roman Catholicism, and
no Universalism, nor Spiritualism; the true nature of
the coming and kingdom of Christ would not have
been lost sight of, and the peace and safety fable of
a temporal millennium never could have existed.
</p>

<p>
To say nothing of other errors that would be corrected,
suppose all Christendom stood together on
these four simple truths, how much division could
there have been in the Christian world? A second
denomination could not have existed. And what
would have been the condition of things?&mdash;As
different from the present condition as one can well
imagine&mdash;no paganism, no Roman Catholicism, no
Protestantism, no multiplied sects, no Spiritualism,&mdash;but
Christianity, broad, united, free, and glorious.
Some are taking their stand on these truths, and
so will be shielded from the delusions of these last
days, for which the way, by ages of superstition and
error, has been so artfully prepared. Every one
must stand upon them who is governed by the literal
rule of interpretation; for they are read in so many
words out of the sacred volume itself. But the
churches generally reject them, often with bitterness,
scorn, and contempt, and some even with persecution.
And this is why Babylon has fallen.
</p>

<p>
That organization, called in Rev. 17:5: <q>Mystery,
Babylon the Great, the Mother of Harlots and
Abominations of the Earth,</q> has been very generally
applied by Protestants to the Roman Catholic
<pb n='143'/><anchor id='Pg143'/>
Church; but if that church is the mother, who are
the daughters? This question has been asked for
many years. Alexander Campbell said:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q>The worshiping establishments now in operation
throughout Christendom, incased and cemented by their
voluminous confessions of faith, and their ecclesiastical constitutions,
are not churches of Jesus Christ, but the legitimate
daughters of that mother of harlots&mdash;the Church of
Rome.</q>
</quote>

<p>
Lorenzo Dow said:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q>We read not only of Babylon, but of the whore of
Babylon, styled the mother of harlots, which is supposed to
mean the Romish church. If she be a mother, who are her
daughters? It must be the corrupt national established
churches that came out of her.</q>
</quote>

<p>
The great sin charged against Babylon, is unlawful
connection with the kings of the earth. The
church should be entirely free from the state. But
now the churches of America, which have for long
years borne so noble a part, are clamoring for a
union with the state, calling for a recognition of
God's name in the Constitution, and God's law in
the courts, and that the government be run on
Christian lines. Old, antiquated laws which they
find upon the statute books of various States, they
are beginning to use to persecute those who differ in
belief with them; and they seek for the enactment
of more stringent Sunday laws for the same purpose.
And when they shall succeed in getting full control
of the state, they will have severed the last link
that has held them to their high estate, show
themselves true members of the Babylonian family,
<pb n='144'/><anchor id='Pg144'/>
and sink in spirit and practice to the level of the
elder Rome.
</p>

<p>
Rev. 14:8 was fulfilled in 1844.<note place='foot'>See
works on the three messages of Revelation 14, for sale by
the International Tract Society, Battle Creek, Mich.</note> Since then
the churches have been going down in spirituality
and godliness, catering more and more to the world,
indulging in carnal amusements, festivals, wife auctions,
and kissing bees, to the very border line of
decency, but especially filling up with the influences
mentioned in Rev. 18:2, till the leaven of Spiritualism
is fast penetrating the whole mass. Yet there
are a multitude of God's people connected with these
churches, who deplore the situation, and for whom
a crisis is approaching. The cry is again to be
raised, <q>Babylon is fallen, come out of her my
people.</q> We verily believe the time has come
when that call should be made and heeded; for a
little further progress in the evil path upon which
we have entered, will surely provoke the just judgments
of heaven. Verses 4, 5.
</p>

<p>
8. 2 Tim. 3:8: <q>Now as Jannes and Jambres
withstood Moses, so do these also resist the truth:
men of corrupt minds, reprobate concerning the
faith.</q>
</p>

<p>
The first five verses of this chapter portray a dark
list of eighteen sins which will characterize professed
Christians in the last days; for those who bear the
characters described, have a <emph>form of godliness</emph>, but
deny the power thereof. The three following verses
plainly describe certain members of the spiritualistic
<pb n='145'/><anchor id='Pg145'/>
fraternity; and they are said to be of the same sort.
This prophecy therefore becomes parallel to that
which has just been examined. The fall of Babylon
prepares the popular churches for Spiritualism. Here
the practice of these sins in the churches, makes
them of the same sort with Spiritualists, so that they
fraternize well together. Jannes and Jambres withstood
Moses by the wonders they were able to
perform; so these will resist the truth through the
wonders of Spiritualism. And this is in the last
days where we now are. So Babylon's fall just
precedes the coming of Christ.
</p>

<p>
9. Rev. 16:14: <q>For they are the spirits of
devils, working miracles, which go forth unto the
kings of the earth and of the whole world, to
gather them to the battle of that great day of
God Almighty.</q>
</p>

<p>
The work of the spirits reaches its climax in the
scene here brought to view. Their last mission is
to go to the kings of the earth to gather them to
the battle of that great day of God Almighty. In
this conflict, so far as this earth is concerned, the
great controversy between Christ and Satan closes
in the triumph of Him who rides forth on a white
horse at the head of the white-horsed armies of
heaven. The beast and false prophet are hurled
into a lake of fire, and the remnant, the kings of
the earth and their armies, are slain by the sword
of him upon whose vesture is inscribed the all-conquering
title, <q>King of kings and Lord of
lords.</q> Rev. 19:11-21.
</p>

<pb n='146'/><anchor id='Pg146'/>

<p>
But before these spirits can thus influence the
kings of the earth, they must make their way to
them and bring them under their control. They
have already shown great facility in this work, giving
promise of what they will be able to do in the
near future. A work by Hudson Tuttle, <q>What Is
Spiritualism?</q> p. 6, names the following among the
late and living crowned heads, nobility, etc., who
have been supporters of Spiritualism:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend="display">
<q>Emperor Alexander, of Russia; Louis Napoleon, of
France; Queen Victoria, of England; Prince and Princess
Metternich; Prince Wittgenstein, Lieutenant Aide-de-camp
to the emperor of Russia; Hon. Alexander Axahof, Russian
Imperial Councilor, St. Petersburg, Russia; Baron Guldenstuble,
of Paris; Baron Von Schick, of Austria; Baron Von
Dirkinck, of Holmfield, Holstein; Le Comte de Bullet, of
Paris; Duke of Leuchtenberg, of Germany. Of England
there are Lord Lyndhurst, Lord Lindsay, Lord Adare, Lord
Dunraven, Sir W. Trevilyan, Countess Carthness, Sir T. Willshire,
Lady Cowper, Sir Charles Napier, Sir Charles Isham,
Bart., Colonel E. B. Wilbraham, of the English army,</q> etc.
</quote>

<p>
The late Alexander III, of Russia, and the queen
of Spain are also reckoned among the number.
Thus, so far as the agency of the spirits is concerned,
there is nothing in the way of the speedy
fulfilment of Rev. 16:14.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index="toc"/>
<index index="pdf"/>
<head>Conclusion.</head>

<p>
The reader now has before him, in brief, the main
outlines of this momentous subject.
</p>

<p>
1. Spiritualism, so far as its phenomena are concerned,
is not humbug and trickery, but a real manifestation
of power and intelligence.
</p>

<pb n='147'/><anchor id='Pg147'/>

<p>
2. But the marvels and wonders are not performed
by the spirits of the dead.
</p>

<p>
3. Evil spirits step in and counterfeit what are
supposed to be the spirits of the dead, in which
men have been taught to believe, simulating points
of identity to any minute particular that may be
required.
</p>

<p>
4. Besides starting on this false assumption, all
their teaching shows that they are agents of evil,
not of good, and their work is to degrade, not
elevate.
</p>

<p>
5. The world by long resistance of the truth, has
prepared the way for this deception, which the spirit
that worketh in the children of disobedience is not
slow to improve.
</p>

<p>
6. Even the churches of Christ, by rejection of
the truth, are preparing themselves for the same
snare.
</p>

<p>
7. The Scriptures have plainly pointed out this
great outbreak of the working of Satan, and invariably
connected it with the last days and the second
coming of Christ.
</p>

<p>
8. Spiritualism is thus a subject of prophecy,
and an infallible sign and precursor of the soon-coming
end.
</p>

<p>
9. The great day of the Lord is near and hasteth
greatly; and all things now call upon all men to
prepare for its eternal decisions.
</p>

<p>
Is this the lesson? Who will heed it and thus
escape the delusions and perils of these last days,
and be finally saved in the kingdom of heaven?
</p>

</div>

<pb n='149'/><anchor id='Pg149'/>

<div>
<index index="toc"/>
<index index="pdf"/>
<head>Index Of Authors Referred To.</head>

<p>
Alexander, Emperor, <ref target="Pg146">146</ref>
</p>

<p>
Axahof, Hon. Alexander, <ref target="Pg146">146</ref>
</p>

<p>
Adare, Lord, <ref target="Pg146">146</ref>
</p>

<p>
Alexander III., <ref target="Pg146">146</ref>
</p>

<p>
Bellachini, Mr., <ref target="Pg014">14</ref>
</p>

<p>
Barrett, Dr. W. F., <ref target="Pg015">15</ref>
</p>

<p>
Bright, John, <ref target="Pg030">30</ref>
</p>

<p>
Buddha, <ref target="Pg086">86</ref>, <ref target="Pg087">87</ref>, <ref target="Pg088">88</ref>
</p>

<p>
Brittan, Professor, <ref target="Pg111">111</ref>
</p>

<p>
Brooklyn, May, <ref target="Pg128">128</ref>
</p>

<p>
Channing, Dr., <ref target="Pg004">4</ref>
</p>

<p>
Cook, Joseph, <ref target="Pg012">12</ref>
</p>

<p>
Crookes, Professor, <ref target="Pg017">17</ref>
</p>

<p>
Crookes, Wm., F. R. S., <ref target="Pg029">29</ref>
</p>

<p>
Clarke, Dr. Adam, <ref target="Pg050">50</ref>, <ref target="Pg056">56</ref>, <ref target="Pg091">91</ref>, <ref target="Pg092">92</ref>
</p>

<p>
Carey, Alice, <ref target="Pg078">78</ref>
</p>

<p>
Confucius, <ref target="Pg086">86</ref>, <ref target="Pg088">88</ref>
</p>

<p>
Conant, Mrs., <ref target="Pg090">90</ref>, <ref target="Pg119">119</ref>
</p>

<p>
Curry, Dr., <ref target="Pg056">56</ref>, <ref target="Pg092">92</ref>
</p>

<p>
Claflin, Mr., <ref target="Pg109">109</ref>
</p>

<p>
Carter, Judge, <ref target="Pg113">113</ref>
</p>

<p>
Campbell, Alexander, <ref target="Pg143">143</ref>
</p>

<p>
Carthness, Countess, <ref target="Pg146">146</ref>
</p>

<p>
Cowper, Lady, <ref target="Pg146">146</ref>
</p>

<p>
Dixon, Hepworth, <ref target="Pg028">28</ref>
</p>

<p>
Davis, A. J., <ref target="Pg029">29</ref>, <ref target="Pg097">97</ref>, <ref target="Pg100">100</ref>, <ref target="Pg105">105</ref>, <ref target="Pg112">112</ref>, <ref target="Pg114">114</ref>, <ref target="Pg118">118</ref>
</p>

<p>
Davenport, Messrs., <ref target="Pg029">29</ref>
</p>

<p>
Dow, Lorenzo, <ref target="Pg143">143</ref>
</p>

<p>
Dunraven, Lord, <ref target="Pg146">146</ref>
</p>

<p>
De Bullet, Le Compte, <ref target="Pg146">146</ref>
</p>

<p>
Eglinton, Mr., <ref target="Pg013">13</ref>
</p>

<p>
Edmunds, Judge, <ref target="Pg028">28</ref>, <ref target="Pg117">117</ref>, <ref target="Pg118">118</ref>
</p>

<p>
Fox, John D., <ref target="Pg018">18</ref>
</p>

<p>
Fox, Mrs., <ref target="Pg018">18</ref>, <ref target="Pg019">19</ref>, <ref target="Pg020">20</ref>, <ref target="Pg021">21</ref>
</p>

<p>
Fox, Margaret, <ref target="Pg018">18</ref>, <ref target="Pg020">20</ref>, <ref target="Pg022">22</ref>
</p>

<p>
Fox, Kate, <ref target="Pg018">18</ref>, <ref target="Pg019">19</ref>, <ref target="Pg020">20</ref>
</p>

<p>
Fox, David, <ref target="Pg018">18</ref>
</p>

<p>
Fox, Mary, <ref target="Pg021">21</ref>
</p>

<p>
Fox, Catharine, <ref target="Pg022">22</ref>
</p>

<p>
Franklin, Benjamin, <ref target="Pg085">85</ref>
</p>

<p>
Geary, Mr., <ref target="Pg013">13</ref>
</p>

<p>
Glanvil, Mr., <ref target="Pg020">20</ref>
</p>

<p>
Gridley, Dr., <ref target="Pg114">114</ref>, <ref target="Pg115">115</ref>
</p>

<p>
Guldenstuble, Baron, <ref target="Pg146">146</ref>
</p>

<p>
Hazard, Thos. R., <ref target="Pg011">11</ref>
</p>

<p>
Harrison, W. H., F. R. S., <ref target="Pg029">29</ref>
</p>

<p>
Home, Mr., <ref target="Pg029">29</ref>
</p>

<p>
Hendricks, Mrs., <ref target="Pg031">31</ref>
</p>

<p>
Hatch, Mrs. C. L. V., <ref target="Pg083">83</ref>, <ref target="Pg106">106</ref>
</p>

<p>
Hare, Dr., <ref target="Pg084">84</ref>, <ref target="Pg085">85</ref>, <ref target="Pg089">89</ref>, <ref target="Pg092">92</ref>, <ref target="Pg099">99</ref>
</p>

<p>
Harris, <q>Rev.</q> T. L., <ref target="Pg094">94</ref>
</p>

<p>
Hall, Hon. J. B., <ref target="Pg101">101</ref>
</p>

<p>
Hatch, Dr., <ref target="Pg106">106</ref>
</p>

<p>
Hudson, T. J., <ref target="Pg017">17</ref>, <ref target="Pg057">57</ref>, <ref target="Pg074">74</ref>, <ref target="Pg109">109</ref>, <ref target="Pg111">111</ref>
</p>

<p>
Hull, Moses, <ref target="Pg109">109</ref>
</p>

<p>
Hobart, Mr., <ref target="Pg122">122</ref>
</p>

<p>
Isham, Sir Charles, <ref target="Pg146">146</ref>
</p>

<p>
Jamieson, W. F., <ref target="Pg109">109</ref>, <ref target="Pg113">113</ref>
</p>

<p>
Jaubert, M., <ref target="Pg126">126</ref>
</p>

<p>
Keller, Harvy, <ref target="Pg013">13</ref>
</p>

<p>
Krishna, <ref target="Pg087">87</ref>
</p>

<p>
Keck, Professor, <ref target="Pg127">127</ref>
</p>

<p>
Lillie, J. T., <ref target="Pg021">21</ref>
</p>

<p>
Loveland, J. S., <ref target="Pg097">97</ref>
</p>

<p>
Lull, Miss A. L., <ref target="Pg125">125</ref>
</p>

<p>
Lillie, Mrs. R. S., <ref target="Pg127">127</ref>
</p>

<p>
Leuchtenberg, Duke, <ref target="Pg146">146</ref>
</p>

<p>
Lyndhurst, Lord, <ref target="Pg146">146</ref>
</p>

<p>
Lindsay, Lord, <ref target="Pg146">146</ref>
</p>

<pb n='150'/><anchor id='Pg150'/>

<p>
Mompesson, Mr., <ref target="Pg020">20</ref>
</p>

<p>
Milton, John, <ref target="Pg040">40</ref>
</p>

<p>
Mohammed, <ref target="Pg087">87</ref>, <ref target="Pg088">88</ref>
</p>

<p>
Massey, Gerald, <ref target="Pg114">114</ref>
</p>

<p>
Mahan, Pres., <ref target="Pg121">121</ref>
</p>

<p>
Metternich, Prince, <ref target="Pg146">146</ref>
</p>

<p>
Metternich, Princess, <ref target="Pg146">146</ref>
</p>

<p>
Norton, Deacon John, <ref target="Pg089">89</ref>
</p>

<p>
Napoleon, Louis, <ref target="Pg146">146</ref>
</p>

<p>
Napier, Sir Charles, <ref target="Pg146">146</ref>
</p>

<p>
Owen, Robert Dale, <ref target="Pg018">18</ref>, <ref target="Pg019">19</ref>
</p>

<p>
Olshausen, Dr., <ref target="Pg056">56</ref>
</p>

<p>
Orton, Mr., <ref target="Pg084">84</ref>
</p>

<p>
Origen, <ref target="Pg141">141</ref>
</p>

<p>
Putnam, Allen, <ref target="Pg075">75</ref>
</p>

<p>
Paine, Thomas, <ref target="Pg085">85</ref>, <ref target="Pg087">87</ref>
</p>

<p>
Potter, Dr. William B., <ref target="Pg107">107</ref>
</p>

<p>
Parker, Theodore, <ref target="Pg114">114</ref>
</p>

<p>
Queen of Spain, <ref target="Pg146">146</ref>
</p>

<p>
Redfield, Mrs., <ref target="Pg021">21</ref>
</p>

<p>
Randolph, Dr. B. P., <ref target="Pg104">104</ref>, <ref target="Pg105">105</ref>, <ref target="Pg112">112</ref>, <ref target="Pg128">128</ref>
</p>

<p>
Richmond, Mrs. Cora L. V., <ref target="Pg126">126</ref>
</p>

<p>
Slade, Mr., <ref target="Pg014">14</ref>
</p>

<p>
Savage, M. J., <ref target="Pg015">15</ref>, <ref target="Pg022">22</ref>, <ref target="Pg024">24</ref>, <ref target="Pg025">25</ref>, <ref target="Pg032">32</ref>
</p>

<p>
Stead, W. T., <ref target="Pg031">31</ref>
</p>

<p>
Stanford, Leland, <ref target="Pg031">31</ref>
</p>

<p>
Tiffany, Joel, <ref target="Pg090">90</ref>
</p>

<p>
Tuttle, Hudson, <ref target="Pg113">113</ref>, <ref target="Pg116">116</ref>, <ref target="Pg146">146</ref>
</p>

<p>
Trevilyan, Sir W., <ref target="Pg146">146</ref>
</p>

<p>
Underhill, Leah Fox, <ref target="Pg021">21</ref>
</p>

<p>
Underwood, Mrs. S. A., <ref target="Pg026">26</ref>, <ref target="Pg080">80</ref>, <ref target="Pg123">123</ref>
</p>

<p>
Vinet, Dr., <ref target="Pg005">5</ref>
</p>

<p>
Victoria, Queen, <ref target="Pg146">146</ref>
</p>

<p>
Von Schick, Baron, <ref target="Pg146">146</ref>
</p>

<p>
Von Dirkinck, Baron, <ref target="Pg146">146</ref>
</p>

<p>
Wesley, Mr., <ref target="Pg020">20</ref>
</p>

<p>
Wood, Rev. J. G., <ref target="Pg026">26</ref>
</p>

<p>
Wallace, Alfred R. F. R. S., <ref target="Pg029">29</ref>, <ref target="Pg030">30</ref>
</p>

<p>
Weisse, Dr., <ref target="Pg084">84</ref>
</p>

<p>
Washington, George, <ref target="Pg085">85</ref>, <ref target="Pg114">114</ref>
</p>

<p>
Wilson, R. P., <ref target="Pg088">88</ref>
</p>

<p>
Whitney, J. F., <ref target="Pg105">105</ref>
</p>

<p>
Woodhull, Mrs., <ref target="Pg109">109</ref>
</p>

<p>
Wilson, James Victor, <ref target="Pg112">112</ref>, <ref target="Pg113">113</ref>
</p>

<p>
Webster, Professor, <ref target="Pg118">118</ref>
</p>

<p>
Watson, Dr., <ref target="Pg125">125</ref>
</p>

<p>
Wittgenstein, Prince, <ref target="Pg146">146</ref>
</p>

<p>
Willshire, Sir T., <ref target="Pg146">146</ref>
</p>

<p>
Wilbraham, Col. E. B., <ref target="Pg146">146</ref>
</p>

<p>
Zöllner, Professor, <ref target="Pg012">12</ref>, <ref target="Pg013">13</ref>
</p>

<p>
Zoroaster, <ref target="Pg068">68</ref>, <ref target="Pg088">88</ref>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='151'/><anchor id='Pg151'/>

<div>
<index index="toc"/>
<index index="pdf"/>
<head>Index Of Books, Papers, Etc., Quoted.</head>

<p>
Automatic or Spirit Writing, <ref target="Pg015">15</ref>, <ref target="Pg026">26</ref>, <ref target="Pg080">80</ref>, <ref target="Pg086">86</ref>, <ref target="Pg098">98</ref>, <ref target="Pg111">111</ref>, <ref target="Pg119">119</ref>, <ref target="Pg120">120</ref>, <ref target="Pg121">121</ref>, <ref target="Pg123">123</ref>, <ref target="Pg124">124</ref>, <ref target="Pg133">133</ref>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Arena</hi>, The, <ref target="Pg015">15</ref>
</p>

<p>
Astounding Facts from the Spirit World, <ref target="Pg114">114</ref>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Banner of Light</hi>, <ref target="Pg021">21</ref>, <ref target="Pg078">78</ref>, <ref target="Pg079">79</ref>, <ref target="Pg083">83</ref>, <ref target="Pg084">84</ref>, <ref target="Pg086">86</ref>, <ref target="Pg089">89</ref>, <ref target="Pg090">90</ref>, <ref target="Pg097">97</ref>, <ref target="Pg101">101</ref>, <ref target="Pg119">119</ref>, <ref target="Pg123">123</ref>, <ref target="Pg125">125</ref>, <ref target="Pg126">126</ref>, <ref target="Pg127">127</ref>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Christian at Work</hi>, The, <ref target="Pg029">29</ref>, <ref target="Pg030">30</ref>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Chronicle</hi>, San Francisco <ref target="Pg029">29</ref>
</p>

<p>
Century Dictionary, <ref target="Pg035">35</ref>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Christian Reformer</hi>, The, <ref target="Pg129">129</ref>
</p>

<p>
Declaration of Principles of the Spiritualists, <ref target="Pg102">102</ref>, <ref target="Pg125">125</ref>
</p>

<p>
Dealings with the Dead, <ref target="Pg104">104</ref>, <ref target="Pg112">112</ref>, <ref target="Pg123">123</ref>
</p>

<p>
Death and the After Life, <ref target="Pg118">118</ref>
</p>

<p>
Discussion with Tiffany and Rhen, <ref target="Pg121">121</ref>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Forum</hi>, The, <ref target="Pg016">16</ref>, <ref target="Pg022">22</ref>
</p>

<p>
Footfalls on the Boundary of Another World, <ref target="Pg018">18</ref>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Fortnightly Review</hi>, <ref target="Pg029">29</ref>, <ref target="Pg030">30</ref>
</p>

<p>
Home Circle, <ref target="Pg014">14</ref>
</p>

<p>
Healing of the Nations, <ref target="Pg096">96</ref>, <ref target="Pg097">97</ref>, <ref target="Pg099">99</ref>, <ref target="Pg102">102</ref>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Herald</hi>, Boston, <ref target="Pg130">130</ref>
</p>

<p>
Kojiki Nohonki, <ref target="Pg132">132</ref>
</p>

<p>
Koran, <ref target="Pg132">132</ref>
</p>

<p>
Kan-Ying-Peen, <ref target="Pg132">132</ref>
</p>

<p>
Law of Physic Phenomena, <ref target="Pg017">17</ref>, <ref target="Pg057">57</ref>, <ref target="Pg074">74</ref>, <ref target="Pg109">109</ref>, <ref target="Pg111">111</ref>
</p>

<p>
Life in Two Spheres, <ref target="Pg113">113</ref>, <ref target="Pg116">116</ref>
</p>

<p>
Law Books of Manu, <ref target="Pg132">132</ref>
</p>

<p>
Mesmerism, Spiritualism, Witchcraft, and Miracles, <ref target="Pg075">75</ref>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>North American</hi>, Philadelphia, <ref target="Pg011">11</ref>
</p>

<p>
Nineteenth Century Miracles, <ref target="Pg013">13</ref>, <ref target="Pg126">126</ref>
</p>

<p>
Nature of Divine Revelation, <ref target="Pg097">97</ref>
</p>

<p>
Paradise Lost, <ref target="Pg040">40</ref>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Pathfinder</hi>, New York, <ref target="Pg105">105</ref>
</p>

<p>
Purana, <ref target="Pg132">132</ref>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Quarterly Journal of Science</hi>, <ref target="Pg029">29</ref>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Religio-Philosophical Journal</hi>, <ref target="Pg014">14</ref>, <ref target="Pg028">28</ref>, <ref target="Pg080">80</ref>, <ref target="Pg125">125</ref>
</p>

<p>
Report of the 37th Anniversary of Modern Spiritualism, <ref target="Pg021">21</ref>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Review of Reviews</hi>, <ref target="Pg031">31</ref>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Record</hi>, Philadelphia, <ref target="Pg128">128</ref>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Spiritual Clarion</hi>, <ref target="Pg014">14</ref>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Spiritual Telegraph</hi>, <ref target="Pg083">83</ref>, <ref target="Pg096">96</ref>, <ref target="Pg122">122</ref>
</p>

<p>
Spiritual Science Demonstrated, <ref target="Pg089">89</ref>, <ref target="Pg092">92</ref>
</p>

<pb n='152'/><anchor id='Pg152'/>

<p>
Spiritualism as It Is, <ref target="Pg107">107</ref>, <ref target="Pg108">108</ref>, <ref target="Pg123">123</ref>
</p>

<p>
Spiritualism <ref target="Pg118">118</ref>
</p>

<p>
Shaster, <ref target="Pg132">132</ref>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>The Border Land</hi>, <ref target="Pg031">31</ref>
</p>

<p>
Treatise on Christian Doctrine, <ref target="Pg040">40</ref>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Truth Seeker</hi>, <ref target="Pg083">83</ref>
</p>

<p>
Telegraphic Answer to Mahan, <ref target="Pg111">111</ref>
</p>

<p>
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims, <ref target="Pg112">112</ref>, <ref target="Pg113">113</ref>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Tribune</hi>, Chicago, <ref target="Pg128">128</ref>, <ref target="Pg129">129</ref>
</p>

<p>
Tao-Te-King, <ref target="Pg132">132</ref>
</p>

<p>
Tripitaka, <ref target="Pg132">132</ref>
</p>

<p>
Veda, <ref target="Pg132">132</ref>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>World</hi>, New York, <ref target="Pg030">30</ref>
</p>

<p>
What Is Spiritualism, <ref target="Pg146">146</ref>
</p>

<p>
Zend Avesta, <ref target="Pg132">132</ref>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='153'/><anchor id='Pg153'/>

<div>
<index index="toc"/>
<index index="pdf"/>
<head>Index Of Texts Of Scripture Illustrated Or Explained.</head>

<lg>
<l>GENESIS.</l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">1:1-5, <ref target="Pg093">93</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">1:28, <ref target="Pg068">68</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">2:2, <ref target="Pg046">46</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">2:7, <ref target="Pg045">45</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">3:4, <ref target="Pg039">39</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">4:10, <ref target="Pg052">52</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">7:21, <ref target="Pg022">22</ref>, <ref target="Pg045">45</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">35:18, <ref target="Pg061">61</ref></l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>LEVITICUS.</l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">19:31, <ref target="Pg036">36</ref>, <ref target="Pg053">53</ref></l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>NUMBERS.</l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">16:22, <ref target="Pg048">48</ref>, <ref target="Pg050">50</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">27:16, <ref target="Pg050">50</ref></l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>DEUTERONOMY.</l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">13:1-3, <ref target="Pg005">5</ref>, <ref target="Pg077">77</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">18:9-12, <ref target="Pg036">36</ref></l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>1 SAMUEL.</l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">Chap. 28, <ref target="Pg052">52</ref>, <ref target="Pg053">53</ref></l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>1 KINGS.</l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">4:1, <ref target="Pg073">73</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">17:21, 22, <ref target="Pg061">61</ref></l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>2 KINGS.</l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">19:35, <ref target="Pg072">72</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">21:2, 6, <ref target="Pg009">9</ref>, <ref target="Pg011">11</ref>, <ref target="Pg036">36</ref></l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>JOB.</l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">7:21, <ref target="Pg062">62</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">14:21, <ref target="Pg063">63</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">19:25-27, <ref target="Pg093">93</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">34: 14, 15, <ref target="Pg045">45</ref></l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>PSALMS.</l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">6:5, <ref target="Pg063">63</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">13:3, <ref target="Pg062">62</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">17:15, <ref target="Pg093">93</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">115:17, <ref target="Pg063">63</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">119:105, <ref target="Pg131">131</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">146:3, 4, <ref target="Pg062">62</ref></l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>ECCLESIASTES.</l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">3:19, 21, <ref target="Pg045">45</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">8:11, <ref target="Pg101">101</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">9:5, 6, 10, <ref target="Pg043">43</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">12:7, <ref target="Pg044">44</ref>, <ref target="Pg045">45</ref></l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>ISAIAH.</l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">5:20, <ref target="Pg101">101</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">8:19, <ref target="Pg074">74</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">8:19, 20, <ref target="Pg075">75</ref>, <ref target="Pg133">133</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">14:12-14, <ref target="Pg067">67</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">26:19, <ref target="Pg093">93</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">38:1, 5, 18, 19, <ref target="Pg063">63</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">61:1, <ref target="Pg050">50</ref></l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>EZEKIEL.</l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">18:20, <ref target="Pg097">97</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">28:, <ref target="Pg067">67</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">28:2, 12-15, <ref target="Pg068">68</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">37:12, <ref target="Pg093">93</ref></l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>DANIEL.</l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">11:2, <ref target="Pg093">93</ref></l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>HOSEA.</l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">13:14, <ref target="Pg093">93</ref></l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>HABAKKUK.</l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">2:11, <ref target="Pg052">52</ref></l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>MATTHEW.</l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">10:28, <ref target="Pg050">50</ref>, <ref target="Pg051">51</ref>, <ref target="Pg052">52</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">10:39, <ref target="Pg051">51</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">15:13, <ref target="Pg009">9</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">17:3, <ref target="Pg056">56</ref></l>
<pb n='154'/><anchor id='Pg154'/>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">22:23-28, 32, <ref target="Pg061">61</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">24:23-35, <ref target="Pg135">135</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">24:24, <ref target="Pg083">83</ref>, <ref target="Pg134">134</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">24:30, 31, <ref target="Pg058">58</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">25:32, 33, <ref target="Pg097">97</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">27:18, <ref target="Pg085">85</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">28:3, 4, <ref target="Pg072">72</ref></l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>LUKE.</l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">10:18, <ref target="Pg071">71</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">14:14, <ref target="Pg064">64</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">16:, <ref target="Pg057">57</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">19:35, <ref target="Pg064">64</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">23:39-43, <ref target="Pg058">58</ref>, <ref target="Pg059">59</ref></l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>JOHN.</l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">3:6, <ref target="Pg046">46</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">3:19-21, <ref target="Pg109">109</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">6:39,40, <ref target="Pg064">64</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">6:40, <ref target="Pg051">51</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">8:44, <ref target="Pg067">67</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">11:11, <ref target="Pg062">62</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">11:25, <ref target="Pg055">55</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">14:30, <ref target="Pg068">68</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">19:31-33, <ref target="Pg060">60</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">20:17, <ref target="Pg059">59</ref></l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>ACTS.</l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">7:60, <ref target="Pg062">62</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">16:16-18, <ref target="Pg036">36</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">17:31, <ref target="Pg064">64</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">26:23, <ref target="Pg057">57</ref></l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>ROMANS.</l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">2:15, <ref target="Pg095">95</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">4:17, <ref target="Pg061">61</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">6:16, <ref target="Pg068">68</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">6:23, <ref target="Pg097">97</ref></l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>1 CORINTHIANS.</l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">11:30, <ref target="Pg062">62</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">15:, <ref target="Pg092">92</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">15:18, <ref target="Pg064">64</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">15:51, <ref target="Pg062">62</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">15:51-54, <ref target="Pg061">61</ref></l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>2 CORINTHIANS.</l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">4:4, <ref target="Pg068">68</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">5:2, <ref target="Pg061">61</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">12:2-4, <ref target="Pg059">59</ref></l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>GALATIANS.</l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">5:19-21, <ref target="Pg036">36</ref></l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>EPHESIANS.</l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">2:2, <ref target="Pg068">68</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">6:11, <ref target="Pg072">72</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">6:12, <ref target="Pg073">73</ref></l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>PHILIPPIANS.</l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">3:11, <ref target="Pg061">61</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">1:23, <ref target="Pg061">61</ref></l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>1 THESSALONIANS.</l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">4:14, <ref target="Pg062">62</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">4:15-17, <ref target="Pg058">58</ref>, <ref target="Pg061">61</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">5:23, <ref target="Pg048">48</ref></l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>2 THESSALONIANS.</l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">2:8,9, <ref target="Pg139">139</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">2:9-12, <ref target="Pg138">138</ref></l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>1 TIMOTHY.</l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">1:17, <ref target="Pg042">42</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">3:6, <ref target="Pg067">67</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">4:1, <ref target="Pg073">73</ref>, <ref target="Pg088">88</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">6:16 <ref target="Pg042">42</ref></l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>2 TIMOTHY.</l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">3:8, <ref target="Pg144">144</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">4:1, 8, <ref target="Pg064">64</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">4:1, 10-12, <ref target="Pg139">139</ref></l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>HEBREWS.</l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">2:14, <ref target="Pg055">55</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">10:25-29, <ref target="Pg135">135</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">11:15, 16, <ref target="Pg061">61</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">11:40, <ref target="Pg048">48</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">12:9, <ref target="Pg023">23</ref>, <ref target="Pg050">50</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">12:23, <ref target="Pg047">47</ref>, <ref target="Pg050">50</ref></l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>JAMES.</l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">4:6-8, <ref target="Pg072">72</ref></l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>1 PETER.</l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">1:11, <ref target="Pg049">49</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">3:19, <ref target="Pg048">48</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">3:20, <ref target="Pg049">49</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">5:8, 9, <ref target="Pg073">73</ref></l>
</lg>

<pb n='155'/><anchor id='Pg155'/>

<lg>
<l>2 PETER.</l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">1:16-18, <ref target="Pg056">56</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">1:19, <ref target="Pg131">131</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">2:4, <ref target="Pg066">66</ref>, <ref target="Pg072">72</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">3:7, <ref target="Pg013">13</ref>, <ref target="Pg072">72</ref></l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>1 JOHN.</l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">2:22, <ref target="Pg087">87</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">2:23, <ref target="Pg083">83</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">4:1, 16-18, <ref target="Pg134">134</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">4:3, <ref target="Pg088">88</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">5:18, <ref target="Pg072">72</ref></l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>JUDE.</l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">Verse 4, <ref target="Pg088">88</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">" 6, <ref target="Pg066">66</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">" 9, <ref target="Pg055">55</ref></l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>REVELATION.</l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">2:7, <ref target="Pg059">59</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">5:13, <ref target="Pg072">72</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">6:9-11, <ref target="Pg052">52</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">12:3, 4, <ref target="Pg137">137</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">12:7, <ref target="Pg071">71</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">12:12, <ref target="Pg135">135</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">13:1-10, <ref target="Pg137">137</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">13:11, 13, 14, <ref target="Pg136">136</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">13:11-17, <ref target="Pg138">138</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">14:1-5, <ref target="Pg138">138</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">14:8, <ref target="Pg144">144</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">16:13, 14, <ref target="Pg075">75</ref>, <ref target="Pg138">138</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">16:14, <ref target="Pg145">145</ref>, <ref target="Pg146">146</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">17:5, <ref target="Pg142">142</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">18:2, <ref target="Pg140">140</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">18:2, 4, 5, <ref target="Pg144">144</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">19:11-21, <ref target="Pg145">145</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">19:20, <ref target="Pg138">138</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">20:4-6, <ref target="Pg051">51</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">20:14, 15, <ref target="Pg072">72</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">21:8, <ref target="Pg036">36</ref>, <ref target="Pg093">93</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">22:1, 2, <ref target="Pg059">59</ref></l>
<l rend="margin-left: 2">22:15, <ref target="Pg093">93</ref></l>
</lg>
</div>
</body>
<back rend="page-break-before: right">
  <div id="footnotes">
    <index index="toc" />
    <index index="pdf" />
    <head>Footnotes</head>
    <divGen type="footnotes"/>
  </div>
  <div rend="page-break-before: right">
    <divGen type="pgfooter" />
  </div>
</back>
</text>
</TEI.2>
